0. The School of Commerce of Presidency University offers Programmes in B.Com and B.Com (Honours) to those aspiring to become leaders in
the field of Commerce and Trade. The focus is on creating a talent pool of accounting-centric professionals whose credentials as Professionals
in its true sense of term is sacrosanct.  The Programme is so conceived that it equips the students with a wide range of managerial skills, while
building competence in a particular area of business. The Programme ensures that in addition to their regular core courses the students are
exposed to all major general business principles. They are taught Courses like Accounting and Finance, Business Management, Marketing,
and Economics, Statistics and Computers.
The B.Com [Honours] is a relatively advanced 3-year Programme, which is offered by the School of Commerce with focus on more dominant
specializations. This Honours Programme equips the students with greater dexterity in terms of their value to the Industry into which they
will ultimately move to. Under this Honours Programme, the School offers specialization in Corporate Accounting integrated with CMA US
and a specialization in  Business Analytics.
0. Students graduating from the School of Commerce will find themselves placed in various positions in realm of Accounts and Finance as
Financial Manager, Assistant Manager, Financial Analyst, Commerce Graduates also find careers in the realm on Professional Accounting
with large organizations and more often than not, with practicing Chartered Accountants.
 ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR ADMISSION IN B.Com (Honors) &
 B.Com (Professional) PROGRAMS
 The candidate seeking admission for B.Com (Hons.) & B.Com (Prof.) should have passed 10+2 or an equivalent examination from any
recognized board with a minimum of 40 % marks in aggregate.
ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR ADMISSION IN B.Sc - Economics
 Candidate seeking admission to B.Sc. Economics (Honors) program should have passed (10 +2)/PUC or equivalent exam with Mathematics
or Statistics as one of the subjectswith minimum 40 % marks in aggregate.
1. B. Com. [Professional] [Spl. in Banking and Finance]
 This Program develops knowledge, skills and attitude required to pursue a career in Banking
& Finance. Students are exposed to the conceptual nuances of Financial Accounting, Cost
Accounting, Banking Law & Operations, Financial Markets, Economics, Financial Management,
Security Analysis, Derivative Markets and Risk Management. The Program in integrated with
Internship Program that will helps to hone the ‘On the Job’ Skills envisaged of Banking &
Finance Professionals. In addition the students are given an option to receive specialized
coaching to prepare them for the CA –Foundation Examination, if they opt for the same.
Programme Duration
 Three Years; Full-time Programme
2. B. Com.[Professional] [Spl. in Corporate Accounting
& Taxation]
This Program  imparts an in-depth knowledge and skills in understanding concepts associated
with Corporate Accounting and Taxation. The Curriculum offered includes a blend of
contemporary areas of domain expertise, like Accountancy, Economics, Management,
Banking, Taxation, Derivatives, Risk Management and Law. Primarily oriented at producing
Commerce Graduates equipped to meet the challenges of the contemporary Business World,
it helps train students to pursue higher education in the realm of Professional Accountancy like
Chartered Accountancy, Company Secretaryship and Cost Management Accountancy. In
addition the students are given an option to receive specialized coaching to prepare them for
the CA –Foundation Examination, if they opt for the same.
Programme Duration
 Three Years; Full-time Programme
3. B. Com. [Hons.] - [Spl. in Corporate Accounting Integrated with CMA-US]
 This Program focusses on equipping the students with knowledge and skills associated with
the study of Professional Accounting with thrust on Corporate Accounting. The Curriculum,
integrated with Certified Management Accountant [CMA, US], exposes the students to an
in-depth knowledge of the concepts and practice associated with Financial Accounting,
Financial Statements and its Analysis, Cash Flow Analysis, Interpretation of Operating
Results and Financial Position etc. Students are also taught Corporate Re-structuring and the
accounting thereof. Ethics and Statutory Compliances form the central theme of this
specialized Program. The CMA, US as offered at this University is as offered by the Institute
of Management Accountants [IMA], US, has global recognition and acceptance. Student become Members of IMA from the
commencement of the Program and are taught the CMA Curriculum in Semester One to Three and they are eligible to appear for the
CMA Examination in Semester 4, thus an opportunity to be CMA-qualified even before the completion of the Program. In addition the
students are given an option to receive specialized coaching to prepare them for the CA –Foundation Examination, if they opt for the same.
Programme Duration
 Three Years; Full-time Programme
4. B. Com. [Hons.] – [Spl. in Business Analytics]
This Program is focused on equipping the students with the knowledge and skills associated
with the interpreting data generated in any business using statistical tools like “R’ etc. Recognizing
 that Business Model in the contemporary world is driven by the digital modes there is a need
to churn out professionals capable of data-propelled decision making. This is reinforced by the
fact that every business, to be successful, requires resources with analytical and statistical skills
to evolve structured information for efficient decision making. Students are taught Courses like
Applied Business Analytics, Date Science with R, Predictive Analysis, and Programming for
Analytics, Marketing Analytics, Financial Analytics and Human Resource Analytics. In addition
the students are given an option to receive specialized coaching to prepare them for the CA –Foundation Examination, if they opt for the same.
Programme Duration
 Three Years; Full-time Programme
5. B. Sc Economics
 The School of Commerce and Management of Presidency University offers three-year B.Sc.
 (Economics) degree. The programme is grounded in solid quantitative and methodological
 foundations as well as interdisciplinary in nature. This course delivers how to formulate
theories and collect evidence to test these theories by employing mathematical and statistical
tools. In addition, this programme develops a solid knowledge in analytical, critical thinking
and entrepreneurial skills in identification, evaluation and selection of right policies in
business /financial fields. This programme uses computers and modern software packages
for analysis, surveys, report preparation and monitoring of the progress of learning and
implementation. This course has a high demand at both the national and international levels
because of its value in our day to day life and in the overall economy. This programme is
highly diversified with wide scope for enabling higher education readiness and employability.
 Programme Duration
 Three Years; Full-time Programme
