Programs
The School Of Computer Science & Engineering (SOCSEI and School Of Engineering (SOEI Of Presidency University Offers
Programmes in various Disciplines [Refer Box] leading to the award of B. Tech. and M. Tech. Degrees. The huge student
strength in the School, is a testimony of its Quality Impart Of Technical Education. The core strength Of the School lies in
its Faculty and the Contemporary Infrastructure.
It has around 430 Faculty members on its Rolls [of which about 48% are Ph.D holders and around 70% are from Premier
Institutions such as IISc, IITs, NITS, BITS Pilani and Foreign Universities] coupled with rigorous, progressive and industry
relevant curriculum, designed and delivered, by Eminent Faculty. The School also offers Ph. D in Sciences and Engineering
with more than 200 Scholars pursuing their Doctoral Studies, as of now.
Highlights
The Four-Year B.Tech Programmes are of 160 credits with around 40% of the Courses being skill-based. Aimed at
ingraining skill, expertise and knowledge in the areas of Technology and Design-thinking, the Curriculum is indeed
contemporary and industry-compliant. The University has another unique feature of Social Outreach Programme, ULC, a
credited Course. through which the students,
under the guidance Of a Faculty-Member, conduct Programmes in various sectors Of social importance. Soft Skill is the
buzz word today and the same is imparted to the students through credited courses for four semesters. Embedded in
curriculum and trained by a dedicated faculty, the focus is on making the students industry-ready and proficient in
communicative skills.
Eligibility B.Tech.
Candidates seeking admission to B.Tech Program should have passed the Pre-University / Higher Secondary lor any
equivalent 10+2 examination from an approved State / Central govt. board or from an international board like University
Of Cambridge "A" level certificate or certificate from International Baccalaureate (1B), Geneva, etc., with a minimum Of 45%
marks in Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with either Chemistry / Biotechnology / Biology /
Electronics IComputer as an additional subject, and with 55% aggregate for SOCSE & 50% aggregate for SOE of Total
Marks in the Qualifying Examination.
Candidate should have appeared in any National/ State level/ Presidency University Entrance Examination viz. CET,
Comed-K, JEE and such others.
Eligibility M.Tech.
Bachelor's Degree or Equivalent in Engineering (B.E/ B.Tech..) in the relevant field from any Indian or Foreign University
recognized by UGC, having obtained at least 50% marks in the aggregate (45% in the case of Reserved Category
Candidates).
Candidate should have appeared in any National/ State level/ Presidency University Entrance Examination viz. CET.
Comed-K, JEE and such others.

Why Presidency University
Rigorous, progressive and industry-relevant curriculum delivered by eminent Fulb time Faculty from Premier Insititutions
as well as renowned industry practitioners.
Programmes aimed at building skill, expertise and knowledge among graduates in technology domains.
High-tech Engineering Laboratories to enable hands-on learning beyond classrooms.
• 6-month Monitored Internship with Placement Facilitation across Industry Sectors.
State-of-the-art infrastructure for a high-quality living and learning experience.
• Curriculum that places a high emphasis on the Core Subjects, Elective Subjects, and Industry Internship Programme,
along with Professional Skills Development Classes.
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
B.Tech. - Civil Engineering
B.Tech. - Electrical and Electronics Engineering
B.Tech. - Electronics and Communication Engineering
B.Tech. - Mechanical Engineering
B.Tech. - Mechanical Engineering
Specialisation : Mechatronics
B.Tech. - Petroleum Engineering
B.Tech. - VLSI
M. Tech. ( Embedded System and VLSI )
M.Tech. ( Building and Construction Technology )
M. Tech. ( Product Design and Development )
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech.- Computer Science and Engineering
Specialisation: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Engineering
( Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning )
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Engg. ( Data Science )
B.Tech. -
Computer Science and Engg. ( Cyber Security )
- Computer Science and Engg. ( Block Chain )
B.Tech.
B.Tech.
- Computer Science and Engg. ( Intemet of things )
B.Tech.
- Computer Science and Technology ( Big Data )
B.Tech.
- Computer Science and Technology ( Devops )
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Technology
Specialisation: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Leaming
B.Tech. - Computer Engineering
Specialisation: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Engineering ( Networks )
B.Tech. - Computer Science and Information Technology
B.Tech. - Information Science and Engineering
Specialisation: Artificial Intelligence and Robotics
B.Tech. - Information Science and Technology
Specialisation: Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
M.Tech. ( Data Science )
M.Tech. ( Artificial Intelligence )