0. INTRODUCTION
Presidency University is committed to fostering a conducive and harmonious environment in which
Students, Faculty and Staff Members work together to achieve academic excellence. Students, being
Members of an Academic Community, are dedicated to the achievement of excellence and are expected to
meet the highest standards of Personal, Ethical and Moral Conduct. These standards require personal
integrity, a commitment to practice self-accountability and a willingness to place the good of the
community above the good of the self. Obligations, once undertaken, must be met, commitments kept. The
Discovery, Advancement and Communication of Knowledge are not possible without a commitment to
these standards. The commitment of its Faculty, Staff and Students to these standards contributes to and
ensures that a Presidency University Degree is held with high regard everywhere. The University prepares
students to understand and practice these standards to be fully equipped for a successful global career
and above all, to be good human beings. Therefore, it is vital that every student accepts accountability and
commitment to maintain discipline, decorum and conformity to all the Regulations, Policies and Code of
Conduct for Students of the University.
VISION, MISSION AND CORE VALUES
1. VISION
To be a Value-driven Global University, excelling beyond peers and creating professionals of integrity and
character, having concern and care for society
2. MISSION
Commit to be an innovative and inclusive institution by seeking excellence in teaching, research and
knowledge transfer.
Pursue research and development and its dissemination to the community at large.
Create, sustain and apply learning in an interdisciplinary environment with consideration for ethical,
ecological and economic aspects of nation-building.
Provide knowledge-based technological support and services to the industry in its growth and
development.
industry’s requirements and inculcate a spirit of new venture creation.
3. CORE VALUES
Intellectual Curiosity and Innovation • Interdisciplinary Approach • Global Engagement • Community
Engagement • Environmental and Social Responsibility
RECOGNITION
Presidency University is established under Presidency University Act of 2013 as a State Private University
located in Bengaluru, Karnataka, duly legislated by Karnataka State Legislative Assembly through
Karnataka Act No. 41 or 2013.

1. THE CAMPUS

A) BUILDING AND FACILITIES
The Presidency University infrastructure is in synchronization with the evolving needs of the student
community given the advent of technological advancement resulting in the continuous expansion of
infrastructure facilities viz. additional classrooms, faculty seating area, laboratories, studios, and
upgradation of other learning resources. Physical Facilities create an ambience conducive to
academic excellence and all rounded development. The University houses Auditorium, Seminar
Halls, Amphitheatre, Laboratories, Conference/Board Rooms, Playground and Utility Block.

Infrastructural Facilities have been developed in accordance with the growing student strength.
Adequate ICT and technological facilities enable effective transmission of education. The auditorium
and amphitheater serve as launch pads for diverse co-curricular activities. Various sports and games
facilities contribute to the development of students in extracurricular activities. Adequate attention is
given to provide necessary infrastructural support to the differently-abled.

B) LIBRARY AND INFORMATION CENTRE

The University has three Library-complexes housed in Management Block and “E Block in the School of
Engineering.
 National Digital
Library, IIM, Bangalore and Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. The latest version of KOHA is the
automation software used in the library.

The Library is opened for use of the Students and Faculty Members between 8.30 am and 6.30 pm on all
University Working Days.  The Library remains open between 8.30 am and 8 pm during End-Semester
Examinations

C) LABORATORIES

Laboratories are equipped with the complete set of the latest equipment and tools that cater to the needs
of the students. With the help of experienced staff with industrial background, students are trained in
laboratories to enhance their practical skills.

The University has discipline-centric Laboratories as under:
Civil Engineering
Surveying Lab
Concrete & Highway Materials Testing Lab
Fluid Mechanics Lab
Soil Mechanics Lab
Engineering Geology Lab
Computer Aided Building Drawing Lab/
Building Information Modelling Lab
Mechanical Engineering
Machine Shop
CNC Milling
CNC Turning
Mechanical Measurements and Metrology Lab
Fluid Mechanics and Machinery
Metallurgy and Material Testing Lab
Engineering Graphics and Design Lab
Energy Conversion Engineering Lab
Additive Manufacturing Facility
Petroleum Engineering
Petroleum Geology Lab
Drilling Fluid and Cement Lab
Reservoir Engineering Lab
Process Control Lab
Petroleum Testing Lab
Reservoir Simulation and Modelling Lab
Oil and Gas Processing Plant Design Lab
Media Labs
Media TV Studio
Media Podcast Lab
Law
Moot Court Hall
Design
B.Design Studio
Fashion Design Studio
Game Design Studio
Virtual Design Studio
Product Studio
Space Studio
Multimedia Lab
Textile Lab
Production Room
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Centre for Research in Power Electronics
Analog Electronics Lab
Digital Electronics Lab
Linear Integrated Circuits Lab
Analog Communication lab
Digital Communication Lab
Microprocessor Lab
Micro-Controller Application Lab
Embedded Systems Lab
Computer Aided and Design Lab
Electrical and Electronics
Electrical Machines Lab
Power Electronics Lab
Control Systems Lab
Electrical and Electronics Measurement and
Instrumentation Lab
Electrical Workshop Lab
Power System Simulation Lab
Computer Science & Engineering
Centre for Excellence [Tech Mahindra]
Centre for Excellence [Capgemini]
Big Data Lab
Internet of Things Lab
Network Programming Lab
Internet Technologies Lab
System Programming Lab
DevOps Lab
Computer Programming Lab
Digital Design Lab
Cyber Security Lab
Basic Sciences
Physics Lab
Chemistry Lab
Mathematics Lab

D) MEDIA LAB
The Media Studio is furnished with cutting-edge tools and technology. Our Media Lab has everything you
need for video or photography, from concept creation to post-production. Students use the process, they
learn in class to produce content in the Media Lab. The Lab is equipped with modern software, a Mac Lab
(that is integrated with the studio), fully operational lights, a green screen, cameras (still and video), and
post-production equipment. Telescreen used for screening. A complete dedicated set design for Talk
Shows and News Broadcasting is available.

E) LANGUAGE LAB

their listening, reading, speaking and writing skills (LSRW). These classes complement the thrust of the
overall curriculum, which is designed to equip students with practical language skills. The Language Lab
contains lessons for slow, average and advanced learners. The topic includes language teaching, linguistics -visual apparatus. The students appreciate
computer-enabled learning as it enhances their learning and understanding. Overall, the Language Lab
aims to ensure that students get a neutral accent in English which would help them in their careers
globally.

F) COMPUTER LAB

University is equipped with State-of-the-Art Computer Labs for imparting quality education. The Campus
is completely WIFI enabled. Each student is provided with access to Mobile and their Personal laptop at
the University Campus with bandwidth for accessing study related content. All the computers are networked,
controlled by central servers and administered professionally. Computer lab provides IT
facilities/services to augment academic ambience of the University. The Computer Lab is well-equipped
with licensed software for academic and administrative needs. The students are encouraged to use free
Open-Source Software. Research activities are carried out in the Research Lab to provide technological
solutions for the societal needs.

G) OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (OIA)

OIA at Presidency University has been set-up with an objective of “International Exposure to Every
Student at Presidency”. OIA provides various opportunities and support to its students and faculty
members towards internationalization at home. OIA is responsible to establish new collaborations with
renowned Institutions across the globe and also make efforts in sustaining the existing cooperation. OIA
works with various stakeholders of the institution and the Schools/Departments towards
internationalization. OIA has explored various international and cultural landscapes across the globe,
with the motto of establishing partnerships with Premier Universities and to create various avenues for
inbound and outbound, student and faculty exchange programs.

H) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

PU Research and Development Cell promotes research among staff and students. The purpose of academic
research is to create new knowledge and push the boundaries in various disciplines. The Doctoral
Program (Ph.D.) in various disciplines offered, balances solid grounding in the fundamentals of the
student's research interest. The University has a full-Research & Development Cell to inculcate
research capabilities among students, research scholars and the teaching fraternity. Faculty members are
encouraged to take up government and non-government funded research/consultancy projects
sponsored by agencies like ICSSR, DBT, DST, UGC, etc.
I) SPONSORED RESEARCH
The O
 e Sponsored Research was established at Presidency University with the objective to
inspire faculty members to carry out extensive research through a mix of incentives. The incentives are
meant to motivate faculty-members to publish quality p
 patents, generate strong R&D
proposals, undertake consultancy projects, execute in-house seed grant initiatives, establish state-of-the
art research facilities and encourage faculty/student innovations leading to possible start-ups, being
incorporated.
J) ADVANCED RESEARCH CENTRES/CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE
Presidency University has established specialized Research-propelled Centres of Excellence with a
goal of promoting Advanced Research in different specialized areas. Each of these Centre of
Excellence has Coordinators and are equipped with State-of-the-Art Research Equipment and other
Support Infrastructural Facilities, to facilitate Advanced Research by Research Scholars and Faculty
K) PRESIDENCY LAUNCH PAD ASSOCIATION (PLA)
Presidency Launchpad Association (Technology Business Incubator) is a non-tion
registered as a Section 8 Company to handhold aspiring Entrepreneurs (Student and Teaching/Non
Teaching Staff) and provide facilities and assistance to them to start, incubate & successfully run
businesses that involve innovation, and societally-important and environmentally-relevant Technologies.

Presidency University envisions PLA as one of the leading incubators in the country. All of the existing
infrastructure and laboratories with state-of-the-art equipment will be made available to the incubated
start-ups. PLA ecosystem supports start-ups to take their next big step. By providing Pre–Incubation
(Ideation stage), Physical & Virtual –
entrepreneurs who are Open to all and have an innovative idea.

L) PU LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Learning Management System delivers an apt platform to facilitate the teaching- learning process in this
digital era. LMS is the customised version of the world’s open-source learning platform. The students and
faculty can access this platform from anywher
 facilitates the blended mode of teaching
and creatively executing the teaching and learning activity.

M)  WI-FI CAMPUS
PU Campus area network interconnects all campus buildings, including recreational spaces, library and
cafeteria. The students and faculty of the institution have direct access to broadband internet services
through a Wi-Fi network. Seminar halls, conference rooms and common areas on the campus are Wi-Fi
enabled through the deployment of secured wireless access points with centralised authentication to
allow secure network access through laptops and Wi-Fi enabled devices.

N) UNIVERSITY WEBSITE

The University website has dedicated pages for all the Schools of the University encompassing academics,
research, campus, students’ service and admission. The site offers all the information required for the
students and the public. Information on all the activities of different Departments, conduct of
examinations, admissions, etc. are uploaded on the website. The website has a dedicated section for the
Alumni Association. This virtual platform functions as a reference point for all those who are associated
with the University.

O) UNIVERSITY E-MAIL

Every PU Academic and Non-Teaching Staff and Student has an E-Ð . The
information is disseminated through this means.

P) PU ON SOCIAL NETWORK

The following social networking platforms of Presidency University augment the mode of communication
instantaneously to a vast number of users. The activities, events and programmes of each day are updated
instantly on these platforms.

Q) MEETING HALLS
In order to facilitate conduct of conferences, seminars, meetings, workshops, competitions, departmental
events, the Campus has a dedicated Auditorium Amphitheatre, Seminar Halls, Conference and Meeting
Rooms as well as large Halls with State-of-the-art facilities, to cover both Face to Face and Virtual
Interactions.
R) SPORTS FACILITIES
PU is renowned for its performance and accolades earned in Sports and Games.  Dedicated
Infrastructural-support Systems are made available to Students, to train and support them in the
development of playing skills.  The University organizes and coordinates various events that help students
to perform well in sports and games. The University has in place a dedicated Sports Management
Leadership headed by a Director, ably assisted by a Head Coach and Game
University encourages games like Basketball, Football, Volleyball, Cricket, Throw-ball and other games.
The University spares no efforts in ensuring that the best of equipment are installed to give the students
the feel of modern performance-enhancing playing conditions.
S) HEALTH CARE CENTRE
Presidency University has an in-house Health-clinic
physical and mental
well-being of the Students. Faculty Members and other Staff Members. It remains open throughout the
week. The University also has tie-ups with the top hospitals in Bengaluru to ensure proper medical care
and attention to all members of the University-community.
The Clinic is headed by a q
 medical professional and supported by a team of trained para-medical
professionals. There are dedicated Satellite Sick Bays at different blocks of the University, manned by
trained nurses.
T) STATIONATORY AND REPROGRAPHIC CENTRE
The Reprography centre near ‘F’ Block of the Campus meets the customized needs of the students and
staff. It also offers photocopying and printing facilities for students at a nominal cost. Various types of
stationery items are available and is equipped to take care of a large scale of operations and thus ensures
that the requirements of students and e
 U) RECREATIONAL SPACES
The University is ‘Green Campus’
the time envisaged.
ins and theme spaces
for students to relax.   The Amphitheatre of the University provides an apt platform for open house events
such as promotional activities, recitation and performances. The Lawns strewed with seating
arrangement, in shades offer the students a platform for them to catch up with their studies and to
network with their friends.
V) CAFETERIA AND FOOD COURT
The University Cafeteria is spacious with a range of hygienic food at an affordable price. It is a popular
hub for refreshments, discussions and bonding. The Cafeteria caters to the diverse student community
with South India, North Indian and Chinese cuisine.
Food kiosks are located at various places within the campus offering quality food, snacks, juices and a
variety of delicacies through third party food-vendors.
Page 7 of 65
W) PARKING
The University has a dedicated Parking for two and four-wheelers for employees with pass and security
restrictions. Only vehicles displaying authorized stickers issued will be permitted inside to park in the
campus premises/designated parking lots. There is a separate dedicated parking area exclusively for
students and visitors outside the Campus premises.
X) UNIVERSITY TRANSPORT
The University has a dedicated
buses plying to and fro to different parts of the City to enable the
University Community (Students and Employees) to commute to the University Campus and back to their
Residences.   To avail this facility, students have to register themselves with the Transport Department of
the University by remitting a nominal fee. The entry into the bus is through valid pass only.
Y) UNIVERSITY HOSTEL
Boys and Girls have dedicated Hostels. The Presidencian Hostels endeavour to integrate the academic
initiatives into the intellectual, physical and psychological well-being and development of the students.
The code of conduct, discipline and decorum of the university is made applicable to the hostel
accommodation of the university.
Z) ATM FACILITY
The University houses the Federal Bank Any Time Money withdrawing machine, which facilitates the
needs of the students and the staff member of the University.

2. THE GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES
The Graduate Attributes
qualities, skills and conceptual knowledge envisaged of university
student community, which the university leadership is focused on developing during their association
with the institution. The Programme Outcomes [PO
 Outcomes [PSOs] and Course
Outcomes [COs] are integrated in the curriculum to facilitate the attainment of the envisaged graduation
attributes. Upon successful completion of the Program, the Graduates of the University will be able to:
• Clearly comprehend relevant domain
knowledge
• Demonstrate strong leadership skills and team work
• Apply the knowledge and/or skills acquired through the learning process to real-life situations.
• Adapt to the changing world and transform themselves as change agents to the advancement of
lifelong learning
3. HOLISTIC EDUCATION
The Academic Programs offered by Presidency University are designed and structured to equip its
students with the requisite contemporary industry-relevant knowledge, skills and aptitude towards
attaining their respective career goals. The Curriculum and Pedagogy are interwoven with Project-driven
experiential learning coupled with assignments that trigger innovative thinking. Students at the
University are taught and mentored by some of the most accomplished Academicians, from across
reputed Universities/Institutions and who have carved a niche for themselves in their respective domains

The Choice Based Credit System Regime around which the Curriculum and choice of Core and Elective
Courses are founded, exposes the Students of the University to a variety of multi-disciplinary courses will
make them more holistic in their outlook.

We create opportunities for you to excel. We open vistas for you to pursue your dream. We endeavour to
make you Industry-relevant and Corporate-worthy.
Collaboration with Foreign Universities
Presidency University has strengthened its Global Education-initiatives through a plethora of
Collaborations with numerous International Partnerships with world ranking institutions on Students
Exchange Programme. These programmes facilitate the students to pursue a semester or two in a foreign
university with credit transfer University has collaborated with many
foreign universities to provide the relevant international experience. These partnerships come with a
faculty members and students, hosting a short-term study abroad, collaborative research and publication.

AUSTRALIA
 La Trobe University
 University of Applied Sciences Technikum
Wien
BELGIUM
 UCLouvain
BRAZIL
 Escola Superior de Propaganda e
Marketing
CHINA
 Nature2need Bio-Polymers and
Compounds, Jiangshan_ Zhejiang
CROATIA
 University of Dubrovink
CZECH REPUBLIC
 University of Chemistry and Technology
Prague
ESTONIA
 Tallinn University of Technology
FRANCE
 ESDES School of Business and
Management
 Excelia Group
 EM Strasbourg Business School
 Kedge Business School
 Skema Business School
 The University of Tours Polytech Tours
 ESSCA School of Management
 ’
 (ISEP)
  EM Normandie Business School
 Centralesupelec - Universite Paris-Saclay
GEORGIA
 Business and Technology University
GERMANY
 Hochschule Konstanz Technik, Wirtschaft
und Gestaltung
 University of Applied Sciences -Schweinfurt
 Hochschule Kaiserslautern _ University of
Applied Sciences
 University of Applied Management
Studies, Mannheim
 Technische Hochschule Ingolstadt
 German University Consortium for
International Cooperations - Indo
German Centre for Higher Education
 Frankfurt School of Finance &
Management
 Aalen University
 HTW Berlin
 Hochschule Mannheim
HUNGARY

INDONESIA
 Universitas Andalas Limau Manis
IRELAND
 South East Technological University
ITALY
 Casaitaliana-Euroo
 Polimi Graduate School of Management
 University of Calabria
 Domus Academy Milano

LATVIA
 Riga Technical University
MALAYSIA
 Universiti Kula Lumpur
 Help University
 Heriot-Watt University
 Universiti Sains Malaysia
 UNITAR International University
 Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia
 Universiti Teknologi Mara
 Limkokwing University of Creative
Technology
MOROCCO
 International University of Rabat
NETHERLAND
 Hanze University of Applied Sciences
NEWZEALAND
 Victoria University of Wellington
NIGERIA
 Skyline University
PHILIPPINES

POLAND
 WSB University
RUSSIA
 South Ural State University, Chelyabinsk
 Saint Petersburg University
SOUTH KOREA
 Solbridge International School of Business
Woosong University
SPAIN
 IQS SM_Universitat Ramon Llull
 University of Huelva
TAIWAN
 Southern Taiwan University of Science and
Technology
 Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre
 National Formosa University
 Providence University
 Tamkang University
 National Chin-Yi University of Technology
 National Sun Yat-sen University
 Asia University
 National Yunlin University of Science and
Technology
 Ming Chi University of Technology
 Chang Gung University
 National Changhua University of Education
 National University of Tainan
  Feng Chia University
 National University of Kaohsiung
 Yuan Ze University
 National Chung Cheng University
 National Chi Nan University
THAILAND
 Asian Institute of Technology
 Siam University
TURKEY
 Istanbul Aydin University
 Fenerbahçe University
UNITED KINGDOM
 University of Essex
 Manchester Metropolitan University
 University of Dundee
 Queen Mary University of London
 University of Liverpool
 Staffordshire University
 London School of Economics and
Political Science
 University of Bristol
 Nottingham Trent University
UKRAINE
 Sumy State University
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 University of Texas at Arlington
 University of Alabama in Huntsville
 Drexel University
 University of Wisconsin, Madison
 Colorado School of Mines
 Illinois Institute of Technology
 Iowa State University of Science and
Technology
 University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
 Central Washington University
 City University of Seattle
 Oklahoma City University
 University of Wisconsin-Stout
 Old Dominion University
 Saint Luois University
 Virginia Commonwealth University
 UCLA Extension
 Southern Methodist University
 University of Missouri-Kansas City
 Temple University

 4. THE CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
At Presidency University, Students are exposed to a more diverse, yet holistic approach. There are clubs
headed by faculty members, and run by students where other students can join and be a part of. These
clubs also encourage students to showcase their talents and skills, and develop their personalities to
become talented professionals. Here are a few of those clubs:
MAGAZINE CLUB
which profession you get into, some form of writing will be a part of it. Now imagine if you are actually
a good writer, you will actually do better than others.
CULTURAL CLUB
Students with varied talents in performing arts can gather, form teams, and even take part in
intercollegiate competitions. This is a great place to make friends with similar talents.
BUILD CLUB
This Club serves as a dynamic platform for research and innovation development. This initiative fosters
a vibrant community of thinkers and doers, driving forward impactful projects and advancing the
frontiers of knowledge. Join us in shaping the future through creativity and exploration!
FILM MAKING CLUB
A Club where Students actually learn and appreciate the intricacies of Film-making. From Editing, on
Industry Standard software like FCP, to appreciating Bounce-lighting, this is a Club where a member
experiences one’s love towards Filmmaking.
ART AND SKETCH CLUB
Art and Sketch Club is chartered to serve the diverse needs and interests of our students. There are
avenues for forming friendships, enhancing Cultural Expression, encouraging Skill Development or
aiding the students for their future career.
CULINARY CLUB
The Culinary Club provides an environment for students to learn cooking skills. Students are
encouraged to participate and help lead the club in cooking activities. The purpose of our Culinary Club
is to help spread knowledge about food through teaching and exploring the different aspects of the
Culinary Arts.
DANCE CLUB
The purpose of the Dance Club is to develop talent and allow the Students to express their creativity.
Students are encouraged to take part in different Intra- and Inter-Collegiate Dance Competitions. The
Group regularly participates in setting up a variety of dance competitions inside the campus. Students
that participate in this Club study dance in an easy, enjoyable, and creative way. Students that
participate in Dance Club stay in shape, make new friends, and acquire skills through the medium of
dance.
Page 11 of 65
DEBATE SOCIETY
The Presidency University Debate Society is mandated to nurture every member to be an Eloquent
Speaker and a Creative Writer. The Debate Society motivates critical thinking amongst students and
help enhance their interest towards debate. Debate is one of the most inherently cross-disciplinary
learning activities, a student can engage in debate
ENTREPRENEURSHIP CELL
The purpose of this Cell is to ignite the entrepreneurship spirit among students in their quest to achieve
success in establishing their venture, across its Life Cycle. The Cell aims at providing a platform for its
members to equip themselves with the Business Skills envisaged of future Entrepreneurs.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLUB
The Environmental Club was established with the primary goal of creating an awareness, amongst
Students, of the environmental issues and equip them with the pragmatic approach to reducing
environmental impact on Society.  The Cell is chartered to meet its objectives through Social Outreach
Programs, Knowledge-sharing Workshops, Seminar, Quiz, Debate, etc.
KANNADA CLUB
The Club promotes Kannada and its culture amongst Students and Staff of Presidency University and
showcase the rich heritage of Kannada Language by empowering and energizing students to exhibit
their skills through active participation.  The Club organizes activities like Poetry-recitation, Panel
discussions on Kannada Literature related issues, Workshops, Book Reviews, Guest Lectures, Film
Screening and Quiz for the Students.
FASHION CLUB
Fashion Club at Presidency University develops a fresh perspective towards fashion by improving
students with fashion designing skills, exposure to different kinds of fashion shows and encouraging
them to participate in inter/intra University fests. The Club inculcate the importance and sense of
PHOTOGRAPHY  CLUB
The Photography Club is where you get to learn outdoor photography. Students also indulge in outdoor
assignments, and appreciation. This is one of the best clubs to give creativity an outlet.
ROTRACT CLUB
The Club emphasizes on developing Professional and Leadership Skills. It helps students to respect for
the rights of others, based on the recognition of the worth of each individual. The Club provides
opportunities for personal and group activities to serve the community and promote international
understanding and goodwill of the people.
THEATRE CLUB
Theatre is an art. Most of the great actors we have today have come from the theatre. There are many
who were studying something else, but ended up becoming actors. Theatre is also about becoming
performers and skills acquired here make students exceptional speakers and presenters.
Page 12 of 65

Page 13 of 65


MUSIC CLUB
The Music Club offers a welcoming environment for music enthusiasts to immerse themselves in music,
engage in performances, and exhibit their musical abilities. Students come here to jam, learn, and
Club hosts a range of events, from
large-scale intra-campus performances to Intense musical competitions, fruitful musical seminars and
preparing students to win national competitions.

SPEAKERS AND ANCHORS CLUB
The purpose is to provide the leadership opportunity that will prove to be a boon as you transition into
the role of a University student just as important forming bonds of friendship, Anchors Club program
is not only gratifying but really fun.

WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CLUB
The purpose of this Club
Club,
webinars, workshops, group discussions, etc. on self-defense, basics of bank
 for hygiene etc. s.
Awareness programs are conducted with regard to menstrual myths and taboos associate with it. This
club is not just a platform for women by women, all genders serve an important role

GRAPHIC AND ANIMATION CLUB
This club's goal is to encourage students' creative tendencies by providing them with practical
experiences that will help them recognize and develop their innate abilities.

MIND BLOSSOM CLUB (MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS CLUB)
Formed P u P
 ] Z ] oand u P u
 v u X d ’ ] o Z o ] o ]
 pport.

DATA SCIENCE CLUB (FORGE)
The purpose of this club is to educate students with the real time application and recent technology in
Data Science. The Club guides students with project ideas in the right direction and to build their career
ld of Data Science.

OMEGA CODING CLUB
Omega Coding Club embraces the spirit of limitless innovation and creativity.  This club is more than
just a group of enthusiasts, it is a community where aspiring coders, tech enthusiasts, and problem
solvers come together to explore, learn and thrive. This club provides a platform where students from
diverse backgrounds can delve into the world of coding, programming and technology.

ZETA BYTE CLUB
The aim of this Club is learning and sharing of knowledge about big data technologies, tools and
opportunities or partners for research projects.  The Club focusses on exploring emerging technologies
and trends in Big Data and analyzing developments In Data Analytics, Machine Learning a

Page 14 of 65

Intelligence.  The club encourages students to work on real world problems and challenges in Big Data
and develop innovative solutions using Big Data tools and technologies.

HACKEYE CLUB
This Club aims to educate students on various topics related to Cybersecurity and guide them to
, Workshops, Competitions, Guest Lectures.
It also provides hands-on experience in core ethical hacking, vulnerability detection, testing, remedies
and background working of attacks.

GOOPS CLUB OBJ
This Club Provide opportunities for students to learn about and experiment with DevOps tools and
technologies through workshops, seminars, and conferences and contribute to the wider tech
community through outreach and collaboration with other technology-related clubs and organizations.
This further fosters a sense of community and support among members with similar interests and
goals.

GENESIS (BLOCKCHAIN CLUB)
This club has been established to enhance the knowledge of Blockchain Technology and Skill-set
amongst student community. It encourages individual and group activities, competitive participation
and learning amongst students and develops team spirit and project making ideology.

QUANTUM MINDS
This Club Educate students on various topics related to Quantum Computing and guide them to
enhance the skills to excel in the multi-disciplinary domain.  It promotes Quantum Computing
awareness, education among students and public by conducting bootcamps.  Ample opportunities are
provided to students to develop skills and knowledge in Quantum Computing through Workshops,
Competitions and Guest Lectures. It also promotes research in Quantum Computing, develop projects
and contributes to the IBM Quantum Qiskit Community. Hands-on training is provided in core Quantum


ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENTSIA SOCIETY (AIS)
The purpose of this Society is to establish a platform for individuals interested in AI to come together
and share their knowledge and expertise. It fosters a community of like-minded individuals who are
passionate about AI and its potential impact on Society. This Society encourages students to test their

skills and knowledge by organizing competitions and challenges. Networking opportunities are
community and raises awareness about AI and its application through outreach activities. It focusses
on development and strengthening of problem solving, analysis, design, research, team work and
chine
Learning and Deep Learning.

HARVEST CLUB
The Purpose of this Club is to foster a culture of innovation by exploring and implementing cutting
edge AI and Robotics Technologies for vegetation enhancement and sustainable tillage in agriculture.
It provides a platform for learning and knowledge-sharing, equipping members with the latest
developments in AI, Robotics, and sustainable agriculture practices. The Club connects with the -driven, sustainable
agriculture and engage in outreach activities to support local farming communities. Members of this
Club are encouraged to take up research initiatives that push the boundaries of AI and robotics in

Page 15 of 65

agriculture, striving to develop new solutions and methodologies for vegetation enhancement and
sustainable tillage. It instils a sense of responsibility towards sustainable agricultural practices,
promoting the conservation of natural resources and biodiversity. The Club empowers members with
the skills and knowledge needed to make a meaningful impact in the agricultural sector through AI and
Robotics, contributing to a greener, more food-secure world.

BASKETBALL CLUB
This Club has been established to provide a competitive developmental and club program that includes
quality instruction in all aspects of basketball with an emphasis on fundamentals and skill
development. It gives necessary skills to perform successfully in basketball and life with an emphasis
on sportsmanship, respect, responsibility, leadership and teamwork. It further helps players to
compete at the University and National Level competitions.

CRICKET CLUB
The main goal of this Club is to provide an inclusive networking environment for students to pursue
their love of cricket without regard to gender. Members can engage with like-minded peers and
represent the university at the national and international levels thanks to the outstanding networking
possibilities it fosters. In addition, the club pushes students to assume leadership positions and actively
participate in its expansion while honing their leadership abilities. It creates an engaging environment
for members by planning a dynamic schedule of student-led cricket-related events and activities. The
club also stresses skill development by imparting basic cricket knowledge and rules. Members can
learn various strategic techniques, put their abilities to use in live matches, and keep up with the latest
in cricket programs and trends.

YOGA AND MEDITATION CLUB
Health is also an important part of the campus life at Presidency University. At the Yoga & Meditation
students join the club just before the exams as well to deal with the stress of the exam, and actually end
up doing well.

MIND BLOSSOM CLUB
The primary focus of this club is to develop a healthy lifestyle focusing on individual’s mental and
physical wellness besides community awareness programs on health and wellness. It helps in
developing a leadership quality through team work.

FOOTBALL CLUB
 physical, mental,
and social viewpoint for all participants. It provides a competitive developmental and club program
that includes quality instruction in all aspects of football with an emphasis on fundamentals and skill
development. The club further provides necessary skills to perform successfully in football and life
with an emphasis on sportsmanship, respect, responsibility, leadership and teamwork.

VOLLEYBALL CLUB
Volleyball is one of most popular games and is today widely played across the world. Various
tournaments are conducted in many countries. People like to watch and play this game. The game is
simple, quick, entertaining and does not require much equipment. Presidency University has a full
lso requires stamina, agility, and endurance and to
help the players achieve in this sport.

KABADDI AND KHO-KHO CLUB
Kabaddi and Kho-Kho is a traditional Indian sport. This Club helps and motivate the players to learn
the game and to perform their best. It further helps players to compete at the University and National
Level competitions.
MARTIAL ARTS AND SELF-DEFENSE CLUB
The objective of this club is to instil students’ peaceful, non
them work out ways to avoid physical altercations. The club encourages to learn and practice the art of
self-defense to improve physical and mental well-being, as well as providing a superb source of self
empowerment, self-discipline and social empowerment. It allows players to compete at the University
and National Level competitions.
THROWBALL AND HANDBALL CLUB
The club provides a platform for students to develop their throwball and handball skills, fosters
teamwork and sportsmanship, and organizes practice sessions, friendly matches, and tournaments. It
also encourages students to stay physically active, and compete at the University and National Level
competitions.
TOASTMASTERS CLUB
Toastmasters International is an international organization that aims to foster the students in
improving their Communication, Public Speaking and Leadership skills all under one roof. Presidency
University along with Toastmasters International is providing a positive learning and development
environment to its students; helping them to develop communication and leadership skills resulting in
greater Self
NATIONAL SERVICE SCHEME (NSS)
Presidency University has always been a torch bearer of social service over the prestigious decades of
its being. It not only moulds the best career of our students but also shapes their character as
Scheme (NSS) is a Central Sector Scheme of Government of India under the Ministry of Youth Affairs &
Sports. The NSS in the Presidency University has added to sustainable and ecological living, higher
standards of learning with awareness drives, celebrating Yoga Day with students, faculties and adopted
slums alike, uplifting social standards and health camps, and hundreds of programmes, special camps
for the overall welfare of both our students and society.
NCC AT UNIVERSITY
The National Cadet Corps (NCC) is the youth wing of the Indian Armed Forces with its headquarters in
New Delhi, India. The Cadets are given basic military training in small arms and drill. The
and
Cadets have no liability for active military service once they complete their course. The NCC is a
voluntary organization which is administered through the Ministry of Defence.
The NCC enhances awareness level of cadets to become responsible citizens of the country and
encourage cadets to enrich their knowledge, develop communication skills and build character.  The
Cadets are involved in the conduct of social outreach activities and community development programs,
adventure activities to hone leadership qualities and risk-taking abilities. It provides a platform to
launch “Goodwill Ambassadors” to project the image of country overseas.
Page 16 of 65

Page 17 of 65


INSTITUTIONAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CELL (ISR CELL)
The Institutional Social Responsibility Cell of Presidency University was established in response to the
contextual features and challenging issues prevalent in Indian S Ð
 educational disparities, where access to quality education and resources is limited for underprivileged
students. Additionally, digital literacy remains a challenge, especially in rural areas. Women
empowerment is essential to overcome gender inequalities and empower women to participate fully
in society. Communities face health issues, and disaster-stricken areas require immediate relief and
support. Furthermore, environmental concerns call for sustainable practices to protect and restore
ecosystems.

STUDENT CHAPTERS
A. Society of Petroleum Engineers, US (SPE) has established the Student Chapter at Presidency
University
 provided by SPE to engage in technology discussions at SPE events, network with industry
professionals, and learn more about the industry. Being active in SPE Student Chapter is a great
way to network with peers and local industry professionals which will offer ways to develop new
skills. SPE offers many resources and opportunities for students to expand their knowledge and
enhance their skills.
B. AAPG student chapter at Presidency University, aims at providing extra knowledge which helps
budding engineers in their professional life with the help of different distinguished lectures,
workshops and events. The AAPG Student Chapter collaborates with different Oil & Gas industry
and organise such events wherein the gap between the industry and academia can be bridged.
C. An IEEE Student Branch gives students a community of peers, and a connection to faculty and
.


5. DIRECTORATE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS

 Affairs offers support for students helping them overcome the hindrances that
may come in the  Policies
set by the University in order to facilitate a positive academic environment and help students
progress smoothly in their educational journey.

5.1. UNIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIP POLICY
A. The University awards several scholarships to encourage meritorious students and support
deserving students. In addition to Merit Scholarships, the University provides scholarships to
students who have excelled in Sports, NCC and Cultural Activities. The University is committed to
support deserving students whose Parents are Defense/Police/Ex-Service (Armed Forces)
Personnel, Differently-abled students, Students from Economically Weaker Sections, Students
belonging to SC/ST/Minority segments, Students with Single Parent (Mother) and Students who
have lost both parents. The University also provides concessions to students who are Alumni of the
University and to children of Staff Members of the Presidency Group of Institutions. There are
Special Scholarships available to the Foreign Students from SAARC Countries. The scholarship for
students of Jammu and Kashmir is awarded for all years of their Program of Study.
B. A Student can avail scholarship only under one category.
C. Students to be

D. Application with incorrect/incomplete information, non-submission of supporting documents and
submission of a Ð

Page 18 of 65

E. Receiving any Scholarship shall not be a matter of right for the student. Awarding of Scholarship/s
shall be at the sole discretion of the University.
F. The various ca
 University at the time of admission to a new Academic Year.
G. The Conditions and Rules for the award of Scholarship/Concession in the University Tuition Fees
shall be cl
H. Scholarships are restricted to rebate in the University Tuition Fee only and are applicable for the
First-year of the relevant Program of Study.
I. Students who are awarded a Scholarship for the First-year of their Program of Study shall pay the
full University Fee and other charges/deposits, as applicable, prescribed in the fee document of the
University from the second year of the Program till completion of the Program of Study.
J. All students who are awarded any type of University Scholarship shall be required to give a written
undertaking to abide by the Rules and Conditions relating to the award of such Scholarship.

5.2. STUDENT COUNCIL
The Student Council plays a vital role in engaging students in all University fest activities. The Council
Members are responsible for Planning, Organizing, and executing various events that showcase the
talents and interests of the student body. The Council also promotes participation and collaboration
among different Clubs, Departments, and Faculties. By involving students in all aspects of University
Fest, the Council fosters a sense of community, belonging and pride among the students. The Council
also provides feedback and suggestions to the University Administration to

improve the quality and diversity of the fest. Through the Student Council, students can have a voice
and a choice in making their University fest a memorable and enjoyable experience.

5.3. EXAMINATION GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL CELL
The examination Grievance Redressal Cell, provides a mechanism for the redressal of grievances
related to examination, ensures transparency in examination practices, and prevents of unfair practices
at the University. This cell is linking the students with the faculty in the continuous evaluation process.
examinations and continuous assessment. If any grievance occurs, it will be immediately considered
and redressed.

Objectives:
• Monitor the Examination Process to ensure stress free examination atmosphere in the University.
• Resolve the Student’s grievances related to Examinations and Continuous Assessments.
• To encourage the Students to express without fear their grievances/problems on conduct of
examinations.
•
the University Examination Regulations.
• Emphasize on prevention of errors rather than controlling through punitive measures

The students or faculty members with a genuine grievance may approach the Co-ordinator or Member
of the Cell in person. In case the person is unable to appear personally, grievances may be dropped in
writing or may also send via mail to the Co-ordinator of the Examination Grievance Redressal Cell. The
Cell shall develop a responsive and accountable attitude amongst all the stakeholders in order to
maintain  healthy practices and smooth conduct of examination in the University.

Submission of Grievances
Students and Teachers can submit the grievances by using any one of the following means:

Page 19 of 65

a) Filling the form available with the co-ordinator and members at the Cell.
b) Sending an mail: examredressal@presidencyuniversity.in

5.4. THE COUNSELLING SERVICE
The Student Counselling Services is an initiative at Presidency University, providing psychological
support for the students in the areas of personal, emotional, social, and academic/career-oriented
concerns. Q s/Psychologists will counsel the student in a
:

a. To understand the  she/he is experiencing;
b. To identify the cause for her/his current feelings;
c. To devise an action plan to address the concerns of the student, as a facilitator;
d. To help the student develop resilience and enable them to achieve her/his academic and personal
goals.

The objective is to provide a neutral base for students to speak about issues they are facing and
actualize possible solutions to become emotionally resilient.

Counselling Services Available for Students
i. Individual Counselling: Working with the Counsellor one-on-one in a safe, non- judgmental
 study
family and relationship problems, eating concerns, body image concerns, bullying,
gender/sexual identity concerns, self-harm, suicidal thoughts and substance abuse and so on.
ii. Peer Support Programme: Fellow students, trained in peer-counselling, can offer an informal
opportunity to talk through issues that are a concern to the student concerned. Students are
ä student volunteers of this role are
enabled to listen effectively, communicate á á
 boundaries, and recognize when and how to encourage referral to the professional counsellor.
The members of peer support group are supervised once in a week by the Student Counsellor
of Presidency University.
iii. Workshops: Short-term interactive sessions that build Self-Help Skills and Life Skills are also
conducted as a part of the counselling centre’s calendar, such as:
a. Identity Crisis
b. Exam Anxiety
c. Decision Making
d. Assertiveness Training
e. Building Resilience
f. Locus of control - Creating healthy boundaries
g. Attraction, Love and Relationships

iv. Working with teachers and parents: Counsellors work along with members of the faculty
and parents in terms of seeking cooperation and support for the students going through the
process of counselling. These services are open to all students of the University. The contact
number and Email id of the Student Counsellor are displayed on notice board and on
electronic media for easy access of the students
v. Services provided by University Student Counsellors: Appointments can be booked via the QR
code scanner provided below. One can address their Mental Health concerns anonymously with
the student counsellors. Student Counsellors articles are featured in the student magazine, where

Page 20 of 65

answers.

Reach out to the student counsellors: namratha.j@presidencyuniversity.in





vi. Services rendered by YourDost for Psychological Health: Counseling services can be availed
from YourDost organization whenever student counsellors are not available. The platform is
available 24/7 and is open to address all types of mental health concerns at free of cost.  The
platform also provides 4-6 seminars in a year for the students on a variety of mental health topics.
Monthly news-letters are provided by the platform, which is circulated in the campus.

5.5. ANTI-RAGGING
A conducive and amicable environment is a hallmark of Presidency University. This ambience is
ensured by various Committees and Bodies that make students aware of the consequences in the
event of breaching the code of conduct. The Anti- Ragging committee is instituted to ensure the
safety and comfort of the students and to provide an amicable environment in the Campus and the
Hostels. The University is guided by the UGC Regulations on Curbing the Menace of Ragging in
Higher Education Institutions. It is expected that every student reads the below mentioned guidelines
and abides by the regulations.

Ragging is a cognizable offence and Presidency University will take strict action against offenders.

A.  of Ragging
• Any conduct by any student or students, whether by spoken or written word or by an act, which
has the effect of teasing or treating a fresher or any other student rudely
• Exploiting the students from completing academic tasks and  extortion
• Any act of physical abuse, including all its variants – sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, and
stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm or any other danger to
health of a person
• Any act that prevents, disrupts or disturbs the regular academic activity of other students.

B. Anti-Ragging Measures
• According to the instructions of the Honourable Supreme Court of India and in accordance with
the UGC Regulations and Karnataka State Government Guidelines, on Curbing the Menace of
Ragging in Higher Educational Institutions, (2009) the University has constituted an Anti
Ragging Committee and Anti-Ragging Squads for overseeing the strict and meticulous
implementation of all the directives. The members of the anti-ragging committee and anti-
ragging squads along with their mobile numbers shall be display students,
especially the newly admitted students.
• The University educates the students enrolled for various programs, at the beginning of each
academic year, about the Anti-Ragging Policy and Zero-Tolerance for ragging at the University.
• Each student, as well as his/her Parents/Guardian, are mandatorily required to submit online
separate
on http://www.antiragging.in to the effect that they are aware of the prohibition of ragging & the
punishment prescribed both by the penal laws and these regulations. All students must submit
Acknowledgement Number to their Class Coordinator.
• Anti-ragging hoardings, banners and billboards are displayed at prominent places in the University
campus, including hostels, canteens, messes, cafeterias, buses, playgrounds, lawns, labs, etc.
• Surprise checks of hostels/canteens/cafeteria/bus stop are carried out regularly. A close and
regular liaison is maintained with the local police to guard against any instance of ragging.
• An FIR will be lodged in the Police Station on all reported ragging cases. Daily
students is carried out by Counselors and Coordinators.
for the new
• An Anti-Ragging Committee of the students is also formed. In case any student encounters ragging
by any of the senior students, he/she is immediately required to contact the members of the anti-
ragging committee, who will take immediate corrective action and necessary proceedings will be
initiated against the culprits engaged in ragging activities. The constitution of the University Anti
Ragging Committee is placed in Annexure – 1.
Punishment for Ragging:
a. Lodging an FIR against the Offender.
b. Rigorous Imprisonment for up to 3 years (under Court of Law).
c. Fine up to Rs.2,50,000/-.
d. Expulsion from Presidency University and subsequent debarring of admission to any other
institution.
5.6. POLICY FOR PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Presidency University is committed to creating and maintaining a community in which students and
employees can work together in an environment free of violence, harassment, exploitation,
intimidation and stress. This includes all forms of gender violence, sexual harassment and
discrimination on the basis of sex/gender or amongst the same sex members.
The University Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment has been framed keeping the following
objectives in view:
A. To comply with the directives of the Honourable Supreme Court of India.
B. To establish an effective mechanism for the Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment cases
and other acts of gender-based violence at the University.
C.
To create and foster an environment at the University that is completely free of sexual harassment
in its various forms and to generate public opinion against all forms of gender-based violence.
D. For the purpose of this policy, "Sexual Harassment" shall include, but will not be confined to the
following:
i.
Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and/or verbal or physical conduct of
sexual nature made, either explicitly or implicitly, in return for a term or condition of
teaching/guidance, employment, participation or evaluation of a person's engagement in any
University activity;
ii. When unwelcome sexual advances and/or verbal, non-verbal, or physical conduct - such as
loaded comments, remarks or jokes, letters, phone calls or through e-mail or any other
communication mediums, gestures, showing of pornography, lurid stares, physical contact or
molestation, stalking, sounds or display of a derogatory nature - have the purpose or effect of
interfering with an individual's performance or of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
environment;
iii. Forcible physical touch or molestation; Eve teasing, innuendos and taunts, physical
Page 21 of 65
iv. Any act or conduct of a person in authority and belonging to one sex which denies or would deny
equal opportunity in pursuit of education or career development, or otherwise making the
environment at the University hostile or intimidating to a person belonging to the other/same
sex.
E. This Policy is applicable to all allegations of Sexual Harassment made by a student, against a
student, employee or third party, irrespective of whether Sexual Harassment is alleged to have
taken place within or outside the University premises.
F.
The University has constituted a Committee for Prevention of Sexual Harassment to make note of
complaints about sexual harassment, conduct enquiries, provide assistance and redressal to the
victims, recommend penalties and take action against the harasser, if necessary.
G. The disciplinary action shall be proportionate to the nature of the violation and could be in the
form of warning, suspension or even expulsion from the University.
The Constitution of the University Committee for Prevention of Sexual Harassment, its responsibilities
and procedures are placed in Annexure – 2.
5.7. STUDENT GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL CELL (SGRC)
Presidency University is committed to providing a safe, fair and harmonious learning and work
environment. In view of this, the University has a robust mechanism for redressal of students’
grievances in a timely manner. The Grievances that need immediate redressal are related to
academic and non-academic matters, such as assessment, victimization, attendance, charging of
fees, conducting of examinations, harassment by fellow students or teachers etc. In this regard, a
formal Student Grievance Redressal Cell (SGRC)   is constituted in accordance with the UGC
Regulation to deal with day-to-day grievances of its stakeholders, including the students.
Any student who is aware of any violations must report the same to the SGR. Said grievance must
be submitted in writing and should be made within (04) days from the day of the alleged violation.
The  SGRC shall take note of the grievance and inform the Disciplinary Committee
formed/conduct the enquiry and impose appropriate retribution. There shall be Internal
Complaints Committee (ICC) in place, in cases of any sexual harassment complaints.
The purpose of the Student Grievance Redressal Committee (SGRC) is to ensure a speedy response
to and accountability of all concerned to the students of Presidency University. In, order to maintain
harmonious Student – Student and Faculty –Student relationships as well as creating an
environment in which students can freely express their grievances without fear of discrimination
or victimization. Further, counseling students to refrain from provoking others against faculty and
staff of the University.
The Constitution of the School Level Grievance Redressal Committee, University Level Grievance
Redressal Committee, Procedure for Redressal of Grievance, Types of Grievances, Appellate
Authority/Ombudsman, Functions of Ombudsman, Procedure for Redressal of Grievance by
Ombudsperson are placed in Annexure-3
5.8. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CELL/CASTE BASED DISCRIMINATION CELL
Discrimination against any person on the grounds of his/her disability or physical limitations and
minority status is a gross violation of universally accepted principles of equality and human rights and
even constitutional obligations. Presidency University has set up Equal Opportunity Cell to address the
Page 22 of 65

Page 23 of 65

issues concerning Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Class and Persons with
Disabilities.

The basic aim of the Cell is to ensure that students and faculty belonging to various diverse
backgrounds of community, religion, region, gender or ability are not deprived of their basic
opportunities. They all must have access to all the basic rights to promote inclusivity and
harmony. Through this cell several activities are organized to promote inclusive policies and
practices for all and to look into the grievances to ensure equality and equal opportunities to the
disadvantaged group on Campus through proper implementation of Policies, Skills, and Programs of
society.

6. ACADEMIC REGULATION

Every student can access the Academic Regulations of the University along with the concerned Program
Regulations and Curriculum on the web portal of the University.. The students and parents must read
these documents so that they are well aware of the Regulations, Policies and Rules of the University.
The students are required to comply with all the Regulations, Policies and Rules issued by the
University from time to time. A person seeking admission to any Program of the University shall be
deemed to have read, understood and accepted the Academic Regulations and the concerned Program
Regulations and Curriculum. Few important points from the Academic Regulations are summarized
below for ready reference of the students. For the Batch admitted in Academic Year 2023-2024, the
Academic Regulations, 2021 are applicable, as may be amended from time to time.

The University Timings for Students is as under:
Working Days 8.45 am to 04.45 pm

 Class Time-Table will be published at the beginning of each Academic Term. The details of

 The University reserves the right to revise the class timings in the academic interests of the
students.
 Every student must be present on time, inside the classroom for every class. Students who arrive
late will be marked absent for that class.
 Late-comers: All students are required to be present in the University Campus and class on time.
Any student who comes late to the University (i.e., after 8:45 am) shall not be permitted to attend
iscipline and Code of Conduct
during the missed period and attend the remaining Classes/Periods. It is the sole responsibility of
the students to cover up the portion of the class that he/she has missed.
 Special training classes, extra classes and other co-curricular activities may be conducted on
 on any day as  by the University or the Academic Calendar. All students
must attend

6.1. Academic Calendar
The academic activities of the University are regulated by the Academic Calendar and approved by the
Vice Chancellor, and published at the beginning of each Academic Year. The Academic Calendar is
available on the Website of the University (www.presidencyuniversity.in). The University shall conduct
the Classes, Tests, Mid-term Examinations, End-Term Examinations, Co-curricular Activities and other
University Activities as per the Academic Calendar issued at the commencement of the Academic Year.
However, the University shall reserve the right to make any changes in the Academic Calendar. It is
mandatory for Students and Faculty Members to strictly adhere to the Academic Calendar for
completion of Academic and other University activities.
6.2. Registration
The University follows a Credit Based Semester System. Hence, it is mandatory for all students to
register themselves at the beginning of each Semester on the dates prescribed in the Academic Calendar
and through
issued by the University to this effect. The Process and Rules of Registration
is prescribed in the Academic Regulations of the University, as is applicable to the respective Batches
of the Program of Study and all the students shall strictly adhere to the provisions of the applicable
Academic Regulation.
A. Registration is the sole responsibility of the student. Every eligible student (refer applicable
Academic Regulations for eligibility criteria) shall register in person, at the beginning of each
Academic Term, on the dates
in the Academic Calendar and/or
issued by the
University from time to time in this regard. The eligible student shall register for the respective
Courses as prescribed by the respective Program Regulations and Curriculum. Without
registration,
no students shall be entitled to pursue any academic activity
(Course/Seminar/Practical/Project work/Internship, etc.) for the said Semester.
B. An eligible student will be permitted to register for the Academic Term only after payment of the
Annual University Fee and other dues/charges as applicable.
C.
student shall not be allowed to attend the classes in the concerned Academic Term under any
circumstances whatsoever. Students are cautioned that failure to register on the
dates will
result in the loss of an Academic Term/Year.
D. Complete details regarding Registration are provided in Regulations, as applicable to the respective
students.
6.3. Attendance Requirements
To maintain high standards of academics, every student is required to attend every Lecture, Tutorial,
Practical Classes and other Co-Curricular activities mandated by the Curriculum Structure of the
concerned Program. Every student must attend every class scheduled in the Time-Table
by the
University. The attendance requirement shall be a minimum of 75% of the classes actually conducted
in every Course the student has registered for in the Academic Term. A student with attendance
shortage (i.e., less than 75% of the classes conducted in every Course in the concerned Academic
Term), shall not be permitted to appear in the End-Term Examinations for the Course(s) in
respect of which the student has a shortage of attendance, irrespective of the student’s academic
performance in the Continuous Assessments. In case the student has an attendance below 75%, it is
the sole responsibility of the student to make up the short fall of attendance.
6.4. Attendance Policy
Attendance will be duly recorded by the concerned Course Instructor for every Lecture, Tutorial, and
Practical Class as scheduled in the concerned Time-Table for the Program of S
 Page 24 of 65
Dean of the respective School.
A. The student shall be kept informed of her/his attendance record so as to ensure that he/she is
aware of any possible shortage of attendance. Efforts will be made to inform the Parent/Legal
Guardian of the concerned student regarding Shortage in attendance from time to time purely on
the address provided by the student at the time of admission/revised thereafter. The student is
expected to take note
that the minimum attendance requirement is maintained. Failure to do so shall result in the student
becoming ineligible to appear for the End-Term Examination of the Course concerned. In such
cases, it shall be the sole responsibility of the student to register and complete the Course when it
is next offered as per the applicable Academic Regulations of the University.
B. The Student and Parent/Legal Guardian are cautioned that shortage of attendance below the
minimum eligibility criteria (i.e., minimum of 75% of classes conducted in every Course the
student has registered for in the Academic Term) for appearing in the End-Term Examinations,
may result in the loss of an Academic Year for the student. The student is advised to adhere to all
attendance requirements as prescribed by the applicable Academic & Program Regulations and
Curriculum.
6.5. Academic Performance Evaluation, Grading and Yearly Promotion
The criteria and process of Academic Performance Evaluation, Grading and annual Progression to the
next Higher Semester is prescribed in the applicable Academic Regulations of the University (refer
Sections 8.0 & 15.0 of the Academic Regulations, 2021). The relevant Program Regulations and
Curriculum also prescribe the methods of assessments and the weightage of marks associated with the
various components of assessments. All the students must read these Regulations and understand
them accordingly.
7. CURRICULUM STRUCTURE; COURSE HANDOUT/COURSE PLAN
7.1. Every student admitted to the First Year of any Program of Study shall have access to relevant
Curriculum Structure at the commencement of the First Academic Year of the Program of Study.
In case of changes in the Curriculum Structure at any stage of the Program of Study, every student
shall be intimated of the fact of change and shall have access to the revised and updated
to all students separately from time to time.
7.2. At the commencement of every Semester, every eligible student would be given the Course
Handout/Course Plan as prescribed by the Academic Regulations and the relevant Curriculum
Structure. The student must use the Course Handout/Course Plan diligently and adhere to the
guidelines provided in the Course Handout/Course Plan in order to enhance learning and
performance in the respective Courses.
8. ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND GRADING SYSTEM
8.1. The academic performance evaluation of a student in a Course shall be according to the
University Letter Grading System based on the class performance distribution of the Course.
Page 25 of 65
8.2. Academic performance evaluation of every registered student in every Course registered by the
student is carried out through various components of Continuous Assessments spread across the
Semester and including the Final Assessment Test. The nature of components of Continuous
Assessments and the weightage given to each component of Continuous Assessments, including
the End Term Final Examinations shall be decided by the DAC and communicated to the students
by the respective Program Heads/ HODs.
8.3. Grading is the process of rewarding the students for their overall performance in each Course.
The University follows the system of Relative Grading with statistical approach to classify the
students based on the relative performance of the students registered in the concerned Course
except in the following cases:
Stand-alone Lab and Project courses
MOOC courses
‘Skill’ based courses
Theory Courses with a class strength less than 30
For the above listed cases, the Absolute grading method will be adopted.
Grading shall be done at the end of the Academic Term by considering the aggregate
performance of the student in all components of Continuous Assessments and End Term Final
Examinations prescribed for the Course. Letter Grades shall be awarded to a student based on
her/his overall performance relative to the class performance distribution in the concerned
Course. These Letter Grades not only indicate a qualitative assessment of the student’s
performance but also carry a quantitative (numeric) equivalent called the Grade Point.
8.4. Absolute Grading for Lab/Project/MOOC/NTCC & Skill based courses:
• Stand-alone Lab and Project courses will be evaluated under Absolute Grading
• It is independent of Class strength
• MOOC courses will be under Absolute grading method
• ‘Skill’ based courses will be evaluated under Absolute Grading
• Theory Courses with a class strength less than 30 will also be evaluated under absolute
grading
Letter Grades with Marks Range for Absolute Grading
Letter Grade
O
Marks range (Out of 100)
>= 90
A+
>= 85 but < 90
A
>= 80 but < 85
B+
>= 75 but < 80
B
>= 70 but < 75
C
>= 60 but < 70
D
>= 50 but < 60
F
< 50

8.6. Minimum Performance Criteria:
A. Theory only Course and Lab Embedded Theory Course
A student shall satisfy the following minimum performance criteria to be eligible to earn the
credits towards the concerned Course:
i.
A student must obtain a minimum of 30% of the total marks/weightage assigned for Mid
Term and the End Term Examination in that Course.
ii.
The student must obtain a minimum of 40% of the AGGREGATE of the marks/weightage of
the components of the Continuous Assessments, Mid Term Examination and the End Term
Examination in the concerned Course.
B. Lab only Course and Project Based Courses
The student must obtain a minimum of 40% of the AGGREGATE of the marks/weightage of all
assessment components in the concerned Course.
C. A student who fails to meet the minimum performance criteria listed above in a course shall be
declared as “Failed” and given “F” Grade in the concerned Course. The student shall have to re
appear in the “Make-Up Examinations” as scheduled by the University, or, re-appear in the End
Term Final Examination of the same Course when it is scheduled at the end of the following
Semester or Summer Term, if offered. The marks obtained in the Continuous Assessments (other
Page 27 of 65

Page 28 of 65

than the End Term Final Examination) shall be carried forward and be included in computing the
(as per Clause 8.6) in the “Make
Up Examinations” of the concerned Course. Further, the student has an option to re- register for
the course and clear the same in the summer term/subsequent semester if he/she wishes to do
so.
D. For Pass only (Non-credit) type of courses such as Environmental Studies, Life Skills, Co
curricular/Extracurricular activities the method of assessment and minimum performance
criteria are prescribed in the respective course catalogues. A student who fails to meet the
minimum performance criteria in such pass only (Non-credit) courses shall be given “NC” (Not
Completed) Grade. The student has to re-register for such courses and meet the minimum
performance requirement to earn the “S” (Satisfactory) Grade.
Assessments, the distribution of weightage among such components, and the method of
evaluation/assessment, shall be as decided and approved by the respective Department Academic
Committee (DAC).
8.7. Award of the “O” (Outstanding) Grade:
The “O” grade stands for outstanding achievement, relative to the registered students in the course,
and utmost care shall be taken in awarding of this highest letter grade.
If there are no ‘O’ grades in a class as per the Relative Grading, top three Marks above 90 will be
awarded ‘O’ Grade, as a special case.
8.8. Declaration of the “F” (Fail) Grade:
The “F” grade denotes failure in a Course. This may be due to the following reasons:
A. Failure to meet the minimum performance criteria for a course as listed in Clause 8.6
B. Further, if a student is absent for the End Term Final Examination of a Course, the student shall be
declared as “Fail” and given a “F” grade in the concerned Course.
C. The “F” grade is declared as a penalty on the student in the concerned Course(s) as per the
recommendations of the Unfair Means and Malpractices Committee (UMMC) and subsequent
approval of the Chairperson, Board of Examinations.
8.9. Declaration of the Placeholder Grades “NP” (Not Permitted):
“NP” is a placeholder grade given in the concerned Course(s) to indicate that a student was not eligible
to appear in the End Term Final Examinations of the concerned Course(s) due to shortage of
attendance as elaborated in Clause 6.3 and he has to re-register to earn the requisite credits.
8.10. Additional Grades with no Grade Points: “S”, “NC” and “U” Grades:
A. “S” and “NC” grades are
concerned Curriculum Structure.
B. “S” grade (“Satisfactorily Completed”) denotes satisfactory performance and completion of a
Course which is pass only or is non-credited as
in the concerned Curriculum
Structure. The requirements for obtaining “S” grade in a particular Course shall be clearly stated in
the Course Handout of the concerned Course.
C. “NC” grade is given for “Non-Completion” of Course requirements in the concerned pass only or
non-credited Course and the student will have to re-register for the Course until he/she obtains
the “S” grade in the Course concerned.
D. “S” and “NC” grades have no associated Grade Points and hence are not included in the SGPA/CGPA
calculations (refer Section 9.0).
E. “U” grade (“Audited Satisfactorily”) is awarded in a Course that the student opts to register for Audit
(refer Clause 3.10 of Academic Regulation 2021). It is not mandatory for the student to go
through the entire regular process of evaluation for the concerned Course. However, the student
has to satisfy the minimum attendance requirement for securing the “U” grade, failing which, that
Course will not be listed in the Grade Card given to the concerned student (refer Clause 8.11).
8.11. Grade Card:
Grade Card is the record of the student’s performance in the Courses the student has registered for in
a concerned Academic Term of the Program of study.
Page 29 of 65
The Grade Card shall contain the following details pertaining to the student’s academic performance:
A. The List of Courses (which includes Course Name, Course Code and associated Credits)
registered by the student in the concerned Academic Term.
B. The Grade obtained in each of the concerned Courses
C. The SGPA and CGPA obtained by the student based on the grading policy.
D. The Grade Card issued to the student in the last Academic Term in which the student completes
the requirements for the award of the concerned Degree (refer Section 20.0 of Academic
Regulation 2021).
9. ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE INDICES: SGPA AND CGPA
9.1. The overall academic performance of a student shall be measured by two indices: SGPA which
is the “Semester Grade Point Average” and CGPA which is the “Cumulative Grade Point
Average”.
9.2. The performance of a student in a Semester is indicated by a number, Semester Grade Point
Average. The SGPA is the weighted average of the grade points secured in all the concerned
Courses registered by the student during that Semester. SGPA for a particular
Semester is computed as follows:
where:
n is the number of all Courses (with Letter Grades and Grade Points, including the Letter Grades
F and NP, which have zero grade points) registered by the student in the Semester concerned; Ck
is the Credits assigned to Course k and Gk is the Grade Point received by the student for the
course k.
9.3. The Cumulative Grade Point Average indicates overall academic performance of a student in
all the Courses registered up to and including the latest completed semester.
CGPA is computed as follows:
where:
n is the number of all the Courses (with Letter Grades and Grade Points, including the Letter
Grades F and NP, which have zero grade points) registered by the student up to, and, including
the latest completed Semester/Academic Term; Ci is the Credits assigned to Course i and Gi is
the Grade Point received by the student for the Course i.
9.4. The SGPA and CGPA are calculated to TWO decimal places.
Page 30 of 65

Page 31 of 65


10. DISPLAY OF PERFORMANCE IN CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENTS

10.1 Performance of all students in the components of Continuous Assessments for all Courses
registered for in the concerned Academic Term, shall be communicated to the students and
displayed in the concerned Department/School by the respective HOD/Dean, before the
Final Assessment Test.
10.2 The concerned HOD/Dean shall attest and submit to the COE, a consolidated Marks Sheet of
the Continuous Assessment Marks obtained by all students of a Program of study, in all the
respective Courses registered for in the concerned Academic Term, before the
commencement of the Final Assessment Test. A copy of the consolidated Marks Sheet shall
be displayed in the concerned Department/School.

11. APPEAL FOR REVIEW OF GRADES; ACADEMIC APPEALS BOARD

11.1 The University is committed to keep the entire process of evaluation beyond reproach. A
mechanism for review of grades is incorporated in the evaluation system.
11.2 In case of a grievance about the grade(s) awarded, a student shall  approach the concerned
Program Head/HOD/Dean with a written request for review of the grade awarded in a Course (or
Courses) within Five (05) University working days from the date of declaration of the results of
the Final Assessment Test. No request for review of grade(s) shall be admissible after  (05)
University working days from the date of declaration of the results of the End Term Final
Examinations.
11.3
receipt of the student’s request, for the concerned Faculty/Course Instructor(s) and one or two
more faculty members who are familiar with the Course(s) concerned to clarify to the student
concerned why she/he
be submitted as a brief report to the HOD/Dean with a copy to the concerned student.

12. MAKE-UP EXAMINATIONS

12.1 Make-Up Examinations is a provision for a student to complete a Course (or Courses) where
she/he received an “F” grade (refer Section 8.0), or, was given the place holder grade “I” (refer
Section 8.0) to reappear in the End Term Final Examination component of a Course (or
Courses), subject to the conditions mentioned below in Clauses 12.2 to 12.5. In no other
circumstances, Make-Up Examinations shall be available to the student.
12.2 A student who fails to appear in the End Term Final Examinations, in some or all Courses, due
to
said student informs the Program Head/HOD/Dean concerned timely (i.e., on or before the last
date of the said End Term Final Examinations), may submit a request to the concerned Program
Head/HOD/Dean for the provision of the Make-Up Examinations in the Course(s) for which
he/she could not attend the scheduled End Term Final Examinations.
A. Provided further, the student must submit, along with the registration form for the Make
Up Examinations, the medical  medical prescriptions, hospital discharge report,
medical fitness report and all such relevant documents duly attested by the concerned

Page 32 of 65

registered
medically treated.
B.
Board of Examinations (BOE) in this regard, who shall convene a special meeting of the BOE
to consider the student’s application. The BOE may grant permission on the veracity of the
case to permit the concerned student to avail the provision of Make-Up Examinations. On
approval of the BOE, the student shall submit the application form for the Make-Up
dates, along with the prescribed fee for the Make-Up Examinations  by the University
from time to time.
C. On the basis of the student’s performance in the Make-Up Examinations and considering the
marks obtained by the student in all other Continuous Assessments as prescribed by the
concerned Program Regulations and Curriculum, the  letter grade awarded will replace
the placeholder grade “I”.
D. In case, the BOE rejects the application of the student for Make-Up Examinations, the
student shall be declared “Failed” in the concerned Course(s) and the placeholder grade “I”
shall be replaced with “F” (Fail) grade in the concerned Course(s). Further, the student shall
have to complete the Course(s) as per the provisions and conditions prescribed in Clause
12.3.
E. If the concerned student does not avail the Make-Up Examinations, or is absent for the Make-
Up Examinations, the student shall be declared “Failed” in the concerned Course(s) and the
placeholder grade “I” shall be replaced with an “F” grade. Further, the student shall have to
complete the Course(s) as per the provisions and conditions prescribed in Clause 12.3.

12.3 A student with “F” Grade in one or more Courses, declared under the conditions stated in
Section 8.0 and/or who secured “D”
Make-Up Examinations to pass the failed Course(s) and/or improve her/his CGPA to enable
her/him to satisfy the criteria for promotion as prescribed in Section 15.0 of the Academic
Regulation 2021. The student shall submit the registration form for the Make-Up
Examinations to the Examination Department of the University within the duly notified date,
along with the prescribed fee for the Make-Up Examinations  by the University from time to
time.
A. Further, if the student fails in the Course(s) attempted in the Make-Up Examinations,
including the Course(s) where the student had earlier secured “D” Grade, the student will be
awarded “F” grade in the Course(s) and will have to re-appear for the corresponding Make
Up Examinations or the regular End Term Final Examinations, scheduled at the end of the
following Semester/Academic Term.
12.4 The provision of Make-Up Examinations shall not be available for practice/laboratory/ skill
based Courses as described in Clause 5.2 of the Academic Regulation 2021. If a student has
secured an “F” Grade in such a Course, the student shall complete the concerned Courses only by
repeating the Courses in the Semester when they become available for registration. Further, the
student is cautioned that she/he shall have to register for the concerned Course(s) only in the
concerned Semester of the next Academic Year when the concerned Course(s) shall be offered,
which may result in the loss of an Academic Year for the student. It is the sole responsibility of
the student to ensure that she/he completes the Course(s) and/or earns the required credits as
prescribed by the concerned Program Regulations and Curriculum.
12.5 Make-Up Examinations may be scheduled at the end of each Semester. The COE shall announce
the schedule of the Make-Up Examinations at least two (02) calendar weeks before the
commencement of the Make-Up Examinations.
13. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STUDENTS
Every student shall observe discipline and decorum, and proudly contribute to the academic ambience
and prestige of the University. Students must treat each other with dignity and a spirit of friendship
and brotherhood to create and nurture harmonious student community. Every student must respect
the faculty members and every staff member of the University. For the well-being of the student
community, any violation of Discipline and Code of Conduct will be strictly dealt with, including
expulsion from the University.
13.1
Student Identity Card
Every student admitted to the University is provided with a University Identity Card. Each student
should display their Identity Card at all times on the University Campus.
A. A student will not be allowed into the University Campus without the Identity Card.
B. A student must produce the Identity Card to use any University facility like Library, Preliminary
Medical Centre, Canteen, Laboratories, etc.
C.
A student must return
graduation/withdrawal/expulsion or when asked for. In case of failure to do so, Security Deposit,
D. Every student should preserve the Identity Card and not give it to any other student or outsider for
any purpose. Any misuse of the University Identity Card (belonging to self or others) will lead to
Disciplinary Action against the student, including expulsion from the University.
E. The University reserves the right to ask the students to surrender their Identity Card without
assigning any reason.
F.
In case a student loses the Identity Card, she/he should apply for a fresh Identity Card along with
a penalty fee prescribed by the University.
13.2
Student Dress Code
Personal grooming and dress code is very essential for self-esteem, a sense of belonging and
camaraderie, pride in the University and preparedness for corporate/professional careers. All students
must follow the dress code applicable to them. Students are advised to be well groomed and dressed
the image of an Ambassador of the University.
The University Uniform and Dress Code as prescribed below shall be mandatorily followed by all
concerned students from Monday to Friday, on all working days. However, on working Saturdays, the
students may attend classes at the University, in casual wear.
Page 33 of 65
A. General Dress-Code for Students
Monday to Friday
Gentlemen-students shall wear formal trousers and shirt (half sleeves or full sleeves – tucked in)
and formal shoes from Monday to Friday on all working days.
Shirts with Chinese collars, torn jeans/trousers, Cargo jeans with multiple pockets, T-Shirts, Kurta
Pajama, Shorts, Track suits, Clothing with objectionable Slogans, Tag-lines and Images are strictly
prohibited.
Students should wear shoes unless medically excused.  “Floaters/Sandals/Chappals” are
strictly prohibited.
Lady-students shall adopt a modest dressing style such as comfortable
formal trousers and
shirt (half sleeves or full sleeves – tucked in), or, power suit/jacket with formal shirt or, Salwar
Kameez or Saree, and suitable formal footwear. Tight
and Sleeveless Clothing,
Short Kurtis, tops, Crop Tops / Shirts, T-Shirts, Torn Jeans, Shorts,
Skirts are strictly prohibited for Lady students
Saturday:
Students may come to the University on Saturdays attired in smart casual clothes.
Gentlemen-students can wear Shirts/Collared T-Shirts/Golf T-shirts with Jeans/trousers and
sports/canvas/casual shoes.
Lady-students can wear comfortable tunic tops, Shirts, Collared T-shirts / Golf T-shirts with Jeans/
trousersand sports/canvas/casual shoes.
NCC cadets will wear uniform on
purpose.
Dress Code for Laboratories (Except Computer Laboratories) and Workshops Students must
come to the Labs (other than Computer Labs) and Workshops in the prescribed lab/workshop
uniform and shoes.
B. University Uniform for respective Schools/Programs:
MBA Program [School of Management]:
Every newly admitted student of the MBA Program shall be provided with a set of the University
Uniform consisting of, one (01) University Blazer, one (01) Tie, two (02) shirts and one (01) pair of
trousers. All MBA students must come to the University wearing the full University Uniform with
formal shoes, every Monday and Thursday.
LLB/LLM Programs [School of Law]:
Every newly admitted student of a Law Program of the School of Law shall be provided with a set of
the University Uniform for Law students consisting of, one (01) University Blazer, one (01) Tie, two
(02) shirts and one (01) pair of trousers. All students of Law Programs must come to the University
wearing the full University Uniform with formal shoes on every Monday and Thursday.
Page 34 of 65

Page 35 of 65

BBA/B.COM Programs [School of Commerce]:
Every newly admitted student of the School of Commerce shall be provided with a set of the
University Uniform consisting of one (01) University Blazer, one (01) tie, two (02) shirts and one (01)
pair of trousers. They shall come to the University attired in full uniform on all working days.
C. Dress Code for Special Events/Programs in the University:
All students of MBA, Commerce and Law Programs are required to be attired in their designated
Uniform consisting of University Blazers and formal shoes.
Students of the other Schools must be in formal dress code and wear formal blazers and formal shoes.
Gentlemen-students must wear ties. Lady-students may wear formal dresses, or sarees.
For games, sports or similar activities, students must wear the University Sportswear and/or
tracksuit/ T-shirts, as prescribed.
D. Violation of the University Student Dress Code:
Any violation of the University Student Dress Code shall result in stringent Disciplinary Action. A
caution notice will be issued to a student violating the Dress Code. Subsequent violation will result
in disciplinary action against the student which may include a   of Rs.1000/-, debarment from
Placement Assistance and/or representing the University in any Event/Competition.

13.3 Restricted Use of Mobile Phones in the University:
Mobile Phones may be carried by students on campus, to stay connected with family and friends,
however appropriate usage is equally important to ensure attention to academic sessions, safety of
people and privacy.
A. Use of Mobile Phones is strictly prohibited in the Academic Blocks, which includes Classrooms,
Laboratories, Workshop, Library, Moot Court and the Corridors of Academic Blocks and
Administrative   Block.
B. Students are strictly prohibited from using Mobile phones during meetings, seminars, workshops,
Guest lectures and Conferences.
C. Students may use their Mobile phones in the permissible/designated areas in the University
Ð
D. Privacy is of highest importance and photographs of On-Campus persons with a mobile phone
shallnot be taken without the consent of the person involved. [This restriction applies to DSLR
Cameras as well].
E. Any Student using mobile phone in restricted areas as  in Sub-Clauses 13.3.A and 13.3.B -, debarment
from Placement Assistance and/or representing the University in any Event/Competition.

13.4 Use of Student’s personal Laptop in the University
Students may bring their Personal Laptops/Tablets to the University Campus. The rules for usage of -Clauses:
A. Students may use Laptops/Tablets in the Tutorial Classes if required as part of the
coursework/class assignments, with prior permission of the concerned Course Instructor.
B. Students may use their Laptops/Tablets in the Classrooms/Seminar Halls for
Assignment/Seminar/Paper presentation purposes, or any other academic activity as

Page 36 of 65

required/approved by the concerned Course Instructor.
C. In case a student wants to use her/his Laptop/Tablet during a class/lecture for academic purpose,
they must seek prior permission from the concerned Course Instructor to use the laptop in the
classroom. Students are not permitted to use personal laptops in the classroom during a lecture
without prior permission of the Course Instructor. Violation of this rule will result in strict
disciplinary action, and the errant student’
 Instructor.
D. Students are not permitted to use/take their personal Laptops/Tablets to the Computer Labs
during a practical/ laboratory period/class. Violation of this rule will result in disciplinary action
on the student, and the errant student’
 Instructor.
E. Students may use their Laptops/Tablets in the Computer/Project Laboratories to complete
assignments/project work, with prior permission of the concerned Course Instructor.
F. Use of personal Laptops/Tablets in the University Laboratories/ Classrooms for any non
academic/curricular work or activity is strictly prohibited. Violation of this rule will result in
stringent disciplinary action on the student and immediate  of their Laptop/Tablet.
13.5 Student Discipline in the University Campus (Includes Hostel and Transport Facility)
A student shall not indulge in any act of indiscipline which includes:
A. Any violation of Regulations, Policies and Code of Conduct for Students of Presidency
University as may be prescribed and be prevalent from time to time;
B. Breach of an Undertaking or Declaration and/or refusal to obey the directions/instructions of
the HOD/Dean, Registrar, Chief Proctor and/or Vice Chancellor or any other Senior University

C. Failure to provide proof of identity when requested to do so and /or not producing Identity Card;
D. Displaying the approved Out pass before moving out of the campus during class hours.
E. Violent, indecent, disorderly, threatening, intimidating or offensive behavior or language
(whether expressed orally, in writing or electronically, including blogs, social networking websites
and other electronic means);
F. Shouting, whistling, use of verbal/written abuses, derogatory or foul language/ terms against any

G. Distribution or publication of a poster, notice, sign or any publication including audio-visual
material, blog or webpage, which is offensive, intimidating, threatening or illegal;
H. Any kind of betting/gambling/extraction of money from a fellow student;
I. Any act of malpractice related to any examination/test/evaluation process/ conducted by the
University;
J. Littering in the University Campus including classrooms;
K. Mass Bunking of classes and other University activities or causing disruption in any manner of the
functioning of the University;
L. Possession and/or use of banned/prohibited substances such as tobacco products, alcohol,
narcotics, etc., within the premises of the University, including hostels of the University;
M. Physical assault or threat to use physical force against any  academic staff, administrative
staff, other employee or student of the University, and /or causing injury to any person within or
outside the University Campus, including Hostels and Transport facility;
N. Carrying any weapons or prohibited items or chemicals; or usage of/ a threat to use them;
O. Violation of status, dignity and honor of students belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
P.
Tribes and/or using abusive language against them and/or indulging in any activity that tends to
deride them or tarnish their reputation;
Creating ill-will or intolerance on religious/ communal grounds. Distribution of
literature/propaganda material, in print/electronic form, pertaining to his/her religion, political
views and group views (based on caste, creed & place of residence) within the University Campus;
Q. Accessing banned sites and/or pornographic sites and/or material in the University Campus,
including Hostels.
R. Any behavior which could be construed as discriminatory or harassment on the grounds of sex,
sexual orientation, gender, gender re-assignment, race, religion, disability or age of any student or
member of staff of the University, or any visitor to the University;
S.
Fraud or deception in relation to the university or its staff, students or visitors: Possession of
duplicate Identity card/Impersonating with an aim to commit fraud /bus pass.
T. Bribery or attempted bribery including but not limited to offering or giving money, gifts or any
other advantage to any student or employee of the University, or any visitor to the University with
the intention of inducing that person to perform his/her role improperly or of rewarding that
person for performing his/her role improperly;
U. Theft, misappropriation, unauthorized use or misuse of the University property, or the property
of its students, staff or visitors;
V. Failure to comply with any punishment imposed as a result of the University’s disciplinary
procedures or contempt of those procedures;
W. Ragging is strictly prohibited. Indulging in any activity that amounts to ragging or any similar act
shall result in the student being suspended from the University immediately;
X.
and/or adversely affects its reputation and good name;
Y.
Z.
Misbehavior/disrespectful behavior, physical assault or threat to use physical force against any
member of Teaching or Non-Teaching Staff of any Department/School/University, Security Staff,
fellow Students and Public within or outside the Campus.
Indulging in any act either singly or with others that creates disturbance within any part of the
Campus/class rooms or indulging in any activity that obstructs the smooth conduct of classes
and/or academic work within the campus;
AA. Indulging or promoting any business or trading activity within the University Campus, including
Hostels and Transport Facility;
BB. Participation and involvement in any Agitation or Public Demonstration or any other form of
collective activity in or outside the  University. Raising any slogans or indulging in any violent
activity in pursuance of any demands or issues;
CC. Indulging in Cyber Crimes like Hacking any University Data Centre/sending obscene
communal/hate messages with criminal intent. Hacking online classes.
DD. Any act, whether verbal or otherwise involving the violation of the Status, Dignity, Honor and/or
derogatory to women. Eve-teasing, accosting, molesting, using unrestrained abusive language,
making suggestive obscene gestures, sending emails/WhatsApp/MMS to Lady Faculty Members
and Students.
EE. Public display of affection/ socially unacceptable behavior.
FF. Any other act of commission or omission, which constitutes indiscipline in the view of the
Disciplinary Committee.
Page 37 of 65
13.6 Defacement/Damage/Theft of University Property
Students shall not indulge in any willful breakage, defacement, damage or theft of the University
property (which includes any University infrastructure, equipment, furniture, sports goods, canteen
facilities, hostel facilities, furniture, University buses, and such other facilities and equipment of any
kind belonging to the University). Any student or group of students guilty of stealing, defacing,
breaking or damaging any property, equipment, facility and/or infrastructure of the University shall
be subject to stringent disciplinary action and penalties which include:
A. Penalty to recover the cost of the damaged/defaced property of the University from the guilty
student(s).
B. Forfeiture of the Security Deposit, if any, deposited by the student at the time of Admission.
C.
Debarment from Placement Assistance of the University and from representing the University
and/or participating in any Competition/Event.
D. Penalty and Suspension from the University.
E. Expulsion from the University.
The decision of the Vice Chancellor, based on the recommendations of the Disciplinary Committee, in
13.7 Banned Substances/Material in University Campus (Tobacco/Narcotics/ Alcohol
Products/Weapons/Firearms and Pornographic Material)
The following articles/substances are strictly banned in the University Campus, University Hostels and
University Transport/Buses:
A. Tobacco Products;
B. Alcoholic Beverages, Spirits and Wines;
C.
Narcotics, Drugs or Solvents;
D. Fire arms, Weapons or replica of a weapon or any instrument which is
E. considered dangerous and/or destructive;
F.
Pornographic material in any form;
G. Unauthorized tranquilizer medicines other than prescribed by the examining physician; or
H. Any other Objectionable Material as notified by the University as such.
NOTE: Possession of any of the articles/substances listed above in the Sub-Clauses 13.7.1 to 13.7.7,
anywhere in the University Campus including the Hostels and in the University Buses, is a serious
violation and strict disciplinary action will be taken against the errant student which includes
immediate suspension from the University till the completion of enquiry by the Disciplinary
Committee. The guilty student(s) may be expelled from the University on the recommendations of the
Disciplinary Committee.
13.8 Social Media Usage – Code of Conduct/Communication
Competent Authority shall assign and entrust certain social media related updates to a Student
Committee which is authorized to upload approved content on the Social Media pages of the University.
They are to be mindful of what is appropriate and what is not, in order to maintain the goodwill and
reputation of the University.
A. Students are expected not to interact on behalf of the University, with Media- representatives or
invite Media-personnel to the campus, without the permission of the University authorities.
Page 38 of 65

Page 39 of 65

B. Students are not permitted to audio/video-record lectures in classrooms or actions of other
students or staff without prior permission/consent.
C. Students are not permitted to provide audio or video clippings of any activity on the campus to the
Media without prior permission.
D. Students are expected to use Social-Media carefully and responsibly. They are not to post derogatory
comments about other individuals from the University on Social-Media or indulge in any related

E. Students are not to create audio/video recordings or take photographs or stream audio/video
content of any person in a location where the person has a reasonable expectation of privacy,
without that person’s knowledge/ expressed consent.

14. DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE

Any act of indiscipline pertaining to the Code of Conduct for Students listed above in Section 13.0 and
its Clauses/Sub-Clauses, will be investigated by the Disciplinary Committee of the University. Based on
the seriousness of the act of indiscipline, disciplinary action against the guilty student shall be initiated,
which may range from a  and/or recovery of costs/expenses (incurred by the University to
restore or replace or repair any property destroyed or damaged or defaced by the student), and
suspension or expulsion from the University.

14.1 All powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action are vested in the hands of the Vice
she/he may specify in this regard.
14.2 The Vice Chancellor may on recommendation of the Disciplinary Committee or on her/his own
order/ direct that any student found guilty of indiscipline shall:
A. Be kept under disciplinary probation with or without supervision for a stated period; or
B. Be suspended for a stated period; and/or
C. Be  monetarily with a  amount; and/or
D. Not receive the result in the examination in which she/he has appeared to be withheld for a
stated period or cancelled; and/or
E. Be debarred from one or more examinations conducted by the University; and/or
F. Be debarred from the Professional/Industry Practice provisions/facility of the University; and/or
G. Be debarred from the Placement Assistance of the University; and/or
H. Be debarred from Registering for a  Academic Term of the University; or
I. Be expelled from the University
J. Be expelled from the Hostels
K. Any other punishment which the Vice Chancellor may deem fit.
14.3 In case a student is found guilty of indiscipline and is punished as stated above, his/her
scholarship (if awarded) under the University Scholarship Policy shall be withdrawn with
immediate effect. He/she shall be liable to refund the full amount received as Scholarship from
the University from the date of admission.
14.4 The University shall be entitled to issue public notice with or without the photograph of the
student concerned to intimate the general public of the misconduct or the punishment imposed
upon the student.

Page 40 of 65

14.5 The decision of the Vice Chancellor regarding punishment shall be  and not open to
question.
14.6 Nothing stated herein shall prevent the University from initiating or instituting appropriate
action in accordance with the prevalent law, both civil and/or criminal, in addition to the
Ð
Disciplinary Action: If a student is found indulging in any act of indiscipline that violates the standard
of ethics and conduct, the University shall initiate the required disciplinary action, without being
biased.  ’ issues with utmost care and with an open mind.
Punishment must not be the sole agenda while enforcing discipline. Students are to be encouraged and
motivated to adopt the right path through proper Counselling by Faculty, Mentor and/or the Student
Counsellor. The nature of disciplinary actions shall be based on the severity & the frequency of  acts of
indiscipline noted against that particular student’s name and the procedure followed could be any one
or a combinationof the below:
Positive Advice/ Counselling:
/Counselor) who would offer him/her words of advice
to guide them his/her
own actions and rectify them accordingly, then engaging the student with the Counsellor shall be
mandatory. This will ensure positive behavioural change and if required subsequent follow-up
Counselling sessions shall continue to take place.
A. Warning/ Fines:
If the student’s behavior is found inappropriate, a formal warning notice will be issued by the
concerned authority in the University. They will also be instructed further that they shall be
provided with one chance to display positive/appropriate student behavior after realizing their
mistake. In some cases of misbehavior such as theft, misuse/damage of institutional property,
may be imposed. The ’
 behavioral history, in case such kind of behavior is repeated in the future. If students are engaged
ne as well as strict
disciplinary action may be imposed.
B. Suspension of Classes:
Temporary Suspension from the University involves the exclusion of the student’s participation
in academic or other activities of the University for a  period. The suspension order shall
be issued to the student with a copy marked to the Parents/Guardian. The act of suspension shall
be noted against the student’s disciplinary record, and if required he/she will be withdrawn from
all courses. The student may forfeit fees. Suspension may include any other disciplinary action
that is deemed appropriate. Once the suspension period has concluded and the student has
completed all accompanying conditions of suspension, he/she must submit a letter to the  Chief
Proctor /Dean Student Affairs. The letter must be a request for reinstatement to the course and
should contain supporting documents attached as evidence that one has complied with the terms
of suspension. The student may return to the University only after an ive decision is
made by the concerned authority.


Page 41 of 65

C. Rustication:
Rustication is a serious disciplinary action of the University and it involves exclusion of the student
from the University for a longer period of time, however not beyond a year. It involves forfeiture
of all rights and their degree not being conferred at the time of Rustication. It also implied that the
student is withdrawn from all courses and fees forfeited. The Rustication order shall be issued to
the student with a copy marked to the parent/guardian and the same shall be maintained in the
student’s disciplinary records and academic transcripts permanently. Rusticated students are not
allowed to enter the University campus.
D. Expulsion:
Students may receive the most serious disciplinary action involving permanent expulsion from the
University and in such case, all their rights as a student of the University shall be forfeited. The
student will be withdrawn from all courses and fees forfeited. Expulsion also implies that the
shall be maintained in the student’s disciplinary records and academic transcript, permanently.
The expelled students are not allowed to enter the University Campus.
E. Postponement of Conferring of Awards and Degrees
The University reserves the right to defer, postpone or cancel the conferring of any Award and
Degree during the course of disciplinary measures or during the period of suspension.

15. RULES, POLICIES AND REGULATIONS

15.1 Admission Rules
The University Admissions shall be open to all persons irrespective of caste, class, creed, gender or
nationality. All admissions shall be made on the basis of merit in the qualifying examinations and as
per the Rules and Guidelines prescribed by the Government of Karnataka, other concerned Regulatory
Bodies and the Entrance Examinations conducted by the University.
A. The students
eligibility criteria, as prescribed from time to time, by the University for the respective Program of
Study. The eligibility criteria for admission to the various Programs of the University would be

B. A student admitted to a Program of Study, shall continue to remain registered for such a Program,
till she/he successfully completes the Program or she/he withdraws from the Program in
accordance with the then prevalent Regulations.
C. Every student duly admitted to the University for a Program after compliance with prescribed
formalities and payment of prescribed fees, deposits, as applicable, and other amounts and
submission of
Number.
D. If a student fails to pay the University Fee and Deposits, as applicable, for admission to a Program of
Study, and/or
to the University, before the prescribed last date thereof, the Provisional Offer of Admission to the
student shall stand withdrawn.
E. If a student desires to join the University on the basis of Lateral Entry or Transfer of Credits from
other Institutes/Universities during the Program, she/he shall be examined for eligibility for
admission as per the procedure and criteria laid down in the Academic Regulations of the
University and the concerned respective Program Regulations, and admission shall be dependent
on his/her eligibility so determined.
15.2
University Fee Policy
A. The University Fee Policy providing information on various University Fees, Charges and Deposits
is given to every student at the time of admission. The purpose of the Fee Policy Document is to
provide all the information the student (and parents) required in this regard.
B. The University Fee is on an “Annual” basis (i.e., charged annually) and in advance, for the concerned
Academic Year. It is not a “Semester” based Fee Structure. However, for the convenience of the
students, the fee payment is facilitated in two installments
in the month of June and the second,
in November, of every Academic Year, irrespective of the date of announcement of results of End
Term Examinations and commencement date of the ensuing Semester).
C. The University Fee (including Deposits, where applicable) is payable through one of the following
Mode:
i.
ii.
iii.
In Cash
By Bank Demand Draft
Through Net-banking or Credit/Debit Card
Note: Cheques are not accepted.
D. Security Deposit, where applicable, will be refunded, after adjusting dues, if any, only when the student
completes his/her Program of Study from the University, or withdraws from the University.
E. In case, a student is required to repeat/re-register an Academic Year, the Annual Fee payable by
her/him shall correspond to the Academic Year to be repeated, and shall be as per the Fee Policy
in force at that point of time.
F. The Policies relating to the University Fee and Deposits, where applicable, are the prerogative of
Presidency University and may be revised from time to time. Such changes shall be binding on all
the students.
G. All disputes arising out of or in connection with this are subject to the exclusive
15.3 Fee Payment Schedule and Late Fee Rules
of the
A. The payment of Fee for new Admissions will be as mentioned in the respective Provisional
Admission Letter or shall be before the commencement of the Program, whichever is earlier. The
B. The student is cautioned that failure to pay the University Fee on or before the prescribed dates
shall not be eligible to Register for the concerned Academic Term and this will result in the loss of
an Academic Term/Year, as the case may be.
15.4
Admission Withdrawal and Fee Refund Policy to Admission to the First Year
For the purposes of these Regulations, “Admission Withdrawal” means a student admitted to the First
Year of a Program of Study seeking ‘Withdrawal of Admission’. The University follows the UGC
guidelines for refund of fees paid for such admission withdrawal cases. The communication for
Page 42 of 65

Page 43 of 65

Admission-withdrawal shall be via e-mail to withdrawal2024@presidencyuniversity.in. The Refund
Policy will apply ONLY if the student has submitted the communication along the requisite documents
within the date as stipulated by UGC. The University will make the refund, if any, through NEFT only, to
their Parent’s Bank Account, the details of which were intimated to the University.

15.5 Computer Laboratory Rules
A. Computer Laboratories will be open during the University working hours and/or as required or
Computer Lab for Academic Learning activities and Curricular-related Assignments/ Project.
B. All Internet-based activities of the students, through the University Campus Network will be
monitored for security purposes.
C. The rules governing access to the Computer Labs and conduct inside the Labs are listed below:
i. Only faculty members, students and staff of the University are allowed into the Computer Lab.
No visitors are allowed into the Lab without prior permission from the concerned
Dean/HOD.
ii. Each student will be provided with Unique Email Id and Password. Students are directed to
change the Password immediately. It will be the responsibility of student to safeguard his/her
Password and should not be shared with any other student.  Any misuse of the Email Id will
amount to an act of misconduct and strict action would be initiated.
iii. Students must log-in and log-out using the Lab Attendance Register kept for this purpose at
the time of entry and exit from the Computer Lab.
iv. Students must display the Identity Cards and should be dressed as per the University Dress
Code applicable to them. Students without Identity Card and/or violating the dress code shall
not be permitted to enter the Lab.
v. Students shall not carry any Pen Drives, CD's or other Storage Devices without prior
permission from the Lab In-charge/Course Instructor and the details of these storage devices
shall be registered in the Lab Register. Failure to comply with this requirement shall result in
disciplinary action against the concerned student and the unauthorized storage device(s)
used or possessed by the student shall be  Whenever a student has copied any
data or program from the system, the same should be shown to the Lab In-charge for

vi. Students shall occupy/use only the systems as
charge/Course Instructor. Every student shall be given a unique Login username and
password. The student shall not share this information to any other student. Any attempt by a
student to use the system without authorization shall result in disciplinary action against
him/her and/or against the student who receives the information referred to above.
vii. Students shall not indulge in hacking or any such unethical/ unauthorized attempt to access
stems other than their own.
viii. Any attempt to destroy or damage data or programs in individual machines as well as in the
server shall result in stringent disciplinary action against the guilty/errant student, which
may include debarment from Placement Assistance and/or participation in University
Competitions/Events.
ix. The Internet/ Wi-Fi facility is provided purely for academic learning and l
 / v X
 u X Z P
 u v X P

Page 44 of 65

o v ] o ]o o ]o v Z µ u- a serious act of
] v ]] Z v ]o ] Z ] Ç Z Z
 of prescribed academic learning shall be deemed to be a serious act of
indiscipline and the
x. Students shall not use the Internet/Wi-Fi facility to send unproductive, provocative, and illegal
mails or indulge in undesirable chat. Any attempt to misuse the Internet/Wi-Fi facility shall
result in disciplinary action against the concerned student, which may include withdrawal of
Internet/ Wi-Fi facilities for the student, debarment from Placement Assistance and/or
participation in University Competitions/Events.
xi. Beverages and eatables are strictly prohibited inside the Lab.
xii. Mobile phones are strictly prohibited in the Lab and violation of the rule results in the

xiii. If any damage is caused to any computer system or its peripherals due to negligence and or
deliberate mischief by student(s), the entire cost of the system/peripherals will be recovered
by the University from the delinquent student(s).

15.6 Rules for Other Laboratories and Workshop
A. Students are to report for Laboratory and Workshop Sessions on time as per the time-table.
B. Students are required to wear laboratory/workshop uniforms as prescribed by the School of
Engineering. Care should be taken by students to wear heavy duty shoes to prevent accidents in
the workshop.
C. All students must maintain the Laboratory/Workshop Records as prescribed by the respective
Course Handout. No student will be permitted to the Laboratory/Workshop class without the
Laboratory/Workshop Records. Students are required to report to the Laboratory/Workshop
sessions with their record note books and must proceed to work on their experiments only after
approval/permission of the Course Instructor/Lab Instructor. Students should adhere to the
instructions given by the Course Instructor and/or the Laboratory/Workshop Technician during
the Laboratory/Workshop Class.
D. All Laboratory-equipment/Workshop Machinery/Appliances/ Chemicals need to be handled with
care by students and take the help of the Lab Instructor/Course Instructor whenever they are
uncertain on how to handle any equipment.
E. Students must inform the Faculty, Laboratory Assistant/Workshop Assistant of any damages or
malfunctioning of equipment immediately and as and
F. Any damage caused to Equipment/Machinery/Appliances due to negligence or deliberate mischief
by the student(s), will be recovered by the University from the concerned student in terms of
penalty fees, or deduction from the Security Deposit; if applicable, paid by the student(s) at the
time of admission.
G. Any unruly behaviour in the Laboratory/Workshop shall be dealt with immediately by the Course
Instructor/Lab Instructor, which may include sending the errant student(s) out of the
Lab/Workshop and any other penalty as imposed by the Disciplinary Committee.
H. All materials used in the laboratory/workshop are the property of the University and should not
be taken out of the laboratory/workshop except under the guidance of a faculty member in charge
and with the permission of the concerned HOD/DEAN.
I. Students absenting themselves from laboratory/workshop sessions cannot claim to re-do the

J. Any loss/ damage/ injury occurring to the student and/or the equipment in the Lab arising out of
failure to follow or adhere to the instructions issued by the Lab/Workshop Instructor or due to acts
of negligence of a student shall be the liability of the student.
15.7
Library Policy and Rules
The University Library promotes a welcoming environment that is conducive for study, research and
learning. It has a good collection of all textbooks, reference books and general reading materials apart
from important e-resources. Library Rules are framed for effective utilization of the library by the
students and will be reviewed periodically in accordance with the latest updates/revisions. Students
are advised to visit the library regularly and utilize the resources available.
A.
Scheme
All the books in the library are
according to Dewey’s Decimal
scheme. Users are
requested to use OPAC computers and follow the instructions given there for easy location of books.
B. Internet Browsing
i.
Internet browsing facility is available in the library only for subject-related searches and to access
the electronic databases subscribed by the University.
ii.
iii.
Online chatting and playing games are strictly prohibited inside the library.
Students are not allowed to download and install any software program without the knowledge
of the Library Staff.
iv. Use of computers is limited to thirty minutes when others are waiting for access.
C.
Use of Electronic Equipment
Use of Electronic Equipment such as Mobile phones, Audio players and similar gadgets are strictly
prohibited inside the library. However, students may use their personal laptop/tablet in the
library for academic work only with prior permission of the Librarian. A student bringing a laptop
inside the library will have to enter the details of the Laptop in the Register kept for this purpose.
Any misuse of the
Librarian and the errant student will be debarred from bringing the Laptop to the Library.
D. Rules for Borrowing Books
Lending of Library books can be done after one produces their University Identity Card as per the
rules/procedure listed below:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
Identity cards are not transferable. Library staff may refuse to issue books to anyone who uses
others’ cards. Books should not be lent to others.
Books will be issued to all students for a period of 15 days.
Books borrowed should be returned on or before the date mentioned in the due date slip. Overdue
charges will be collected as mentioned in Clause 15.7.I below.
Books have to be returned to the library as and when they are recalled by the Librarian.
The condition of a book must be checked before borrowing and any book found in a damaged
f any damage or
defect is noticed while borrowing.
The Borrower is fully responsible for the books issued on his/her card. Any damage to the book
or marking during the borrowed period will lead to a penalty or total replacement of the book.
If books borrowed are damaged or lost by the borrower, he/she should replace the book or pay the
value thereof as mentioned in Clause 15.7.I below.
Page 45 of 65

Page 46 of 65

E. Rules of Borrowing Non-Book (CD-ROMs)
Two CD-ROMs will be issued to all categories of students for a period of 2 days. Overdue charges
will be collected as mentioned in Clause 15.7.I.
F. Rules for Renewal of Books
i. Renewal of books is done for those books that are not in demand by others.
ii. Books must be brought to the library for renewal.
iii. Books can be renewed twice for a 15-day period each time, if there is no demand from others.
iv. In case a book is reserved by someone, then its renewal is not possible and it has to be returned to
Z ] o v v Z demand.
Such books have to be returned on or before the due date and kept in the library for Á l days
before issuing it to the same person.
G. Rules for Reservation of Books
i. Reservation of books can only be done for those books that are on circulation. Books which are on
the shelves cannot be reserved.
ii. Online reservation, using the Library Software, is possible from within the University Campus.
iii. If a book is reserved by more than one person, each one gets a priority number automatically based
other than those reserved.
iv. Whenever a reserved book is returned to the library, each member by order of priority in the
reservation list, will be intimated and given two working days to borrow the books. If he/she fails
to borrow it, then the next person in the list is allowed to borrow the book.
H. Reference Books
Dictionaries, Encyclopedia, Handbooks, Manuals, Year Books, Periodicals, Back Volumes of
Periodicals, Reports, Text Books, Newspapers and all those books bearing the stamp “Reference”
will not be lent out. These resources are meant for reference within the library premises only.
I. Overdue Charges, Loss of Books and Identity Card
For late returns of books, the following overdue charges will be levied:
A. First 10 days after due date: Rs. 5.00 per book day
B. From 11th day after due date: Rs. 10.00 per book per day
C. Any book that is lost by the borrower must be brought to the notice of the Librarian immediately.
D. The Borrower is liable to replace the book that is lost or damaged. If unable to replace the lost
book, recovery of cost of the book must be made on the following basis:
i. Three times the current price of the book, if loss of the book is reported before the due date;
ii. Three times the current price of the book with overdue charges, if the borrower has reported the
loss after the due date;
iii. s
of the book’s cost will be recovered from the borrower;
iv. Absence from the University will not be allowed as an excuse for delay in return of books;
No reminders will be issued to individual defaulters; and, All books borrowed from the library have
to be returned, and all outstanding dues be cleared before getting a No-

J. Digital Library
The Library Subscribes to the following Online Database which are available to Students and Faculty
within the campus as well as on remote access by User ID and Password. These Online Database are

Page 47 of 65

subject to copyright and hence the users are required to use the content for the academic reference only.
Passwords may be collected from the Librarian.

K. Printing and Photocopying Facility

by the library from time to time. Photocopy charges may be paid at the Issue Desk.
 Print Journals: The Library Subscribes to 350 print journals and 50
      general magazines & newspapers. List of these journals has been displayed in the library. These
periodicals are only for reference and are not for circulation.
L. Working Hours
Monday through Saturday: 8.30 AM to 6.30 PM.
During End-Term Examinations: 8.30 AM to 8.00 PM.
Circulation (Issue & Return): 8.30 AM to 6.00 PM.
The library will be closed on Sundays and other holidays of the University.
M. General Instructions
A. Access to the Library is restricted to Faculty, Staff and Students of Presidency University only.
Always bring your Identity card for all Library transactions, without which the Library Staff will not
issue books/ other resources.
B. Always use the Call Number for locating the books; the call number is printed on the spine of the
Ð
C. Use the Online Public Access Catalogue (OPAC) for identifying the books you require and to know
the availability.
D. After referring the books, please leave them on the tables. Library staff will replace them.
E. Personal belongings must be left in the property rack before entering the library. However, no
valuables should be left in the racks and the library will not be responsible for any loss of a users’
belongings left in its premises.
F. “A book misplaced is a book lost forever” – Replacing books in different locations on the racks
• ‘Manupatra’
• IEEE Digital Library
• ASTM Digital Library
• ProQuest ABI Global
• J-Gate (Engineering)
• J-Gate (Social Science and Management)
• NTPEL Lectures and Videos
• EBSCO
• Science Direct
• JSTOR
• Lexis Nexis
• SSC Online
• Hein Online
• Capitaline
• CMIE ProwessIQ
• Emerald insight
• IndiaStat
• SPSS AMOS
• Scopus bibliographical database
• DELNET - Developing Library
Network
• South Asia Archives
• World E-book Library
• Library OPAC
• Shodhganga (Archive of e-theses
of all Universities in India)
• Turnitin Plagiarism Check
• Ouriginal (Urkund - UGC)
Plagiarism Check

Page 48 of 65

should be avoided. Since the Library follows open access system, books taken out of the racks
should be left on the tables. Library staff shall replace them later.
G. Strict silence is to be observed inside the library. If conversation becomes necessary, it should be
in low tones only.
H. Food and Beverages are not allowed inside the library.
/ If any books are defaced, such as marking / underlining / folding or tearing of pages etc., twice the
cost of the latest edition of the book will be charged from the student. If a student is found guilty
of theft, tearing parts of the books, and/or causing damage to the library property, disciplinary
action will be taken against the students with penalties ranging from forfeiture of the Security
Deposit to expulsion from the University.

15.8 Policy Against Plagiarism
A. The University is committed to ensure the authenticity as well as accuracy of documentation of the
research record, whether in a pre-registration research proposal, research progress report, pre
government, industry, media, or public at large.
B. For this purpose, the guidelines followed worldwide, shall be adopted such as those issued by the
u K µ X P d u
 X u X X u
C. The Research and Innovation Council of the University shall provide Guidelines and Training, as
required, to ensure that all students, in particular Undergraduate Students of Higher Semesters,
Postgraduate Students, Research Scholars and Faculty Members are trained in the best practices
of Research Documentation/Publishing/ Communication, including how to avoid Unethical
Publishing Practices, and the usage of Anti-plagiarism Software Turnitin®, iThenticate®, or other
approved Software, respectively.
D. All written submissions for publication such as Project Reports/ Dissertation /Papers/Theses and
other Publications under the name of the University must adhere to the Anti-Plagiarism
Guidelines provided by the Course Instructor(s), Research Supervisors, Ph.D. Regulations or other
University  to this effect, from time to time. If required, the Electronic File (text) shall
be scanned using Anti-Plagiarism Software (Turnitin®, or iThenticate®, or other approved
Software). Also, non-text contents such as Tables, Figures, Images, Drawings, Schema, etc., shall be
critically examined to ensure that the submission is free from any unethical content/practice,

E. Research Scholars shall submit the Anti-plagiarism scanning report of the complete Thesis at the
University, as may be amended from time to time.
F. The Students, Research Scholar(s), Supervisor(s) and Author(s) shall be held responsible for any
such document found to have unethical content/practices including, but not limited to Plagiarism,
Dissertations/Publications/Thesis shall be withdrawn by the University, regardless of their
consequences to their authors, including cancellation of Registration for the Course(s) concerned
and/or withdrawal of their Ph.D. degrees, if awarded. Such Research Scholars may also be
debarred from admission to any program, in the University.

15.9 Internship, Professional Practice and Placement Assistance
The University has a dedicated Industry Interface and Placement Cell to provide assistance for

Page 49 of 65

Internship, Professional Practice (as applicable) and career Placements to all the eligible students. The
students must strictly follow the Rules and Guidelines issued by the University on a timely basis, to
avail such facilities.
A. Every student must have a minimum attendance of 75% or above, in all Courses in every
Semester/Academic Term to be eligible to avail the facilities offered by the Industry Interface and
Placement Cell.
B. The University shall not extend any Professional Practice or Placement support to students
penalized in Disciplinary cases.
C. The students are advised to refer the Program Regulations and Curriculum, 2021 pertaining to the
concerned Program of Study for more details on the Policy on Placement and Internships, as
applicable to the relevant Program of study.
D. The relevant Placement Rules and Guidelines will be issued to the pre- year students of a
Program of Study by the Placement Cell at the appropriate time.

15.10 Medical Care Policy
A. The University is committed to taking due care of the General Health and Wellbeing of each student.
However, the University shall not take responsibility of serious medical conditions arising out of
the University Primary Medical Center. In case a student requires further medical attention, he/she
will immediately be transferred to the nearest hospital and the same shall be informed to the
Parents.
B.
University Campus and university hostels, and if deemed necessary inform the Parent/Legal
Guardian of the concerned student. The University shall not be held responsible for any incident
during the provision of this service. Further, the University shall not be held responsible in cases of
any medical emergencies such as accidents which may occur inside the Campus, at the Sports Fields
or in any other Outdoor Sports/activities and journeys to and from the University, including
University Transport Facility. The University shall not be liable in misdeeds or any other Law for any
accident/injury caused to a student due to any act of omission or commission by the concerned
student and/or if such injury or harm arises due to the concerned student failing to adhere to
prescribed Safety Norms/Directions/Instructions or failure to adhere to the prescribed Code of
Conduct.
C. The University has Trained &  Nursing Staff and has an Ambulance Facility on Campus.

15.11 University Transport Policy
The University has its own Transport Facility and provides pick up and drop facilities on certain

a. Students who would like to avail the University transport facility may apply
i. for the Transport Facility of the University and pay the prescribed University Transport Fee. The
Transport Fee is paid as an annual fee for the concerned Academic Year. A student availing
transport facility and has not paid the Transport fee in full, shall not be permitted to use the
University Transport Facility.
b. Transport fee are neither refundable nor adjustable under any circumstances.
c. The student has to opt for the available pickup/drop point on the available pre
time of applying for the transport facility.
d. The transport route and pick/drop points are planned considering the best interests for the entire
community using the University Transport system. However, the
route and schedule are
entirely at the discretion of the University.
e.
f.
the beginning of each Academic Term.
ixed and announced at
Transportation routes and timings may be altered keeping in view its requirements during
examination and other special activities of the University.
g. Students will be issued Transport ID cards at the time of allocation of transport facility and must
carry the Transport ID card with them to prove identity, whenever required. Only authorized
students are permitted to travel with ID cards.
h. The Transport ID Cards are not transferable. Any student misusing the ID card shall be subject to
disciplinary action, which may include withdrawal of the transport facility for the errant student.
i.
Intoxicants, Liquor, Tobacco, Explosive and/or weapons (knife etc.) cannot be kept /used by the
student. Any violation will result in disciplinary action including expulsion from the University.
j.
Instructions and Rules for students using the University Transport/Bus:
i.
All students using the University transport must be respectful to other commuters –
faculty and students, the bus driver and conductor/manager.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.
No student shall invite friends or others to board the University Bus.
The students must be ready at the assigned bus stop at least
minutes before the bus is
scheduled to depart. The bus will not wait for students who are not present at the bus stop at
the assigned time.
A student must occupy the allotted / available seat only.
A student is not permitted to get down from the bus other than at the opted bus stops.
A student must follow the instructions of the Bus Driver, Conductor and Manager, if the
Manager is inspecting the bus.
Students must not litter/ play loud music/ shout in the bus; or cause damage to any part of
the bus.
h. A student indulging in any act of misbehavior with fellow passengers, faculty,
staff or any transport staff, and/or causing damage to the University Bus, shall be subject to stringent
disciplinary action, including forfeiture of the University Transport facility for the rest of the Academic
Year.
15.12 University Hostel Policy
The University provides safe, convenient and comfortable Hostel facilities with a Hostel Mess at a very
affordable fee. Separate Hostels are provided for Boys and Girls. All hostellers must abide by the Hostel
Management and Rules of Operations that will be given to all students admitted to the University
Hostels. The student (hosteller) and parent/legal guardian of the student shall give an undertaking as
prescribed by the Hostel Management and Rules of Operation.
A. -come--serve basis, at the time of Admission to the
University. Hostel accommodation is normally allotted only for the Odd and Even Semesters.
Students who require Hostel Facility for the Summer Term must apply for the same and pay the
prescribed Hostel Fee applicable for the Summer Term as stipulated by the University.
B. Nomination of a Local Guardian is imperative for admission to the Hostel, and he/she should be
accessible to the Hostel Authorities in times of emergency, as a reliable contact person.
C. In case a student (Hosteller) fails to maintain a minimum 75% attendance in all Courses registered,
at the end of the concerned Semester, the Hostel facility shall be withdrawn for the student. The
Page 50 of 65

Page 51 of 65

concerned student will not be provided the University Hostel facility for the next
Semester/Academic Term.
D. The Hostel Facility shall be co-terminus with the student pursuing a course of study at the
University.

15.13 Sports Policy
The University strongly encourages sports activities both indoor and outdoor games, to create a
vibrant sporting culture and provide competitive and friendly recreation for students to bring out the
“sportsmanship” and camaraderie. The University has
sprawling facilities for several sports activities. To promote Sports, the University has an established
Sports Council.
Sports Council: The Constitution of Sports Council
 Chairperson – Vice Chancellor
 Member Secretary – Director of Physical Education
 Members – Dean Student Affairs, Deans of all Schools, Physical Education Instructors and
 A minimum of two students representing each School
Several sporting events are organized throughout the Academic Year, including the University Sports
Meet. Other special events and coaching programs may be conducted for interested students from
time to time.
15.14 Parking Facility
 The University provides limited parking space for the two-wheeler and four-wheeler vehicles of
students for which each student shall be issued a Vehicle ^ from u K
 Z v ] Z o Z µ Z Zo v v ]
 u
B. Students must park their vehicles in the allocated parking zones. Every student using the parking
facility must comply with the
C. Students using two-wheelers must wear helmets while riding their vehicle. Students without
helmets will not be allowed to park their two-wheeler vehicles in the allotted parking area.
D. Exceeding speed limits within the Campus is strictly prohibited.
E. Any violation of these rules will result in the parking facility being withdrawn from the student.

15.15 Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular Activities
A. The University is committed to the overall development and transformation of each student by
providing different mandatory co-curricular activities and extra-curricular activities such as Sports,
Cultural, Hobby Clubs, etc. Some Programs include mandatory National Study Tour, Internships
and other Training Programs.
B. NSS and NCC: Students are encouraged to become members in NSS and NCC, and actively
participate in the NSS/NCC programs of the University.
C. Students must attend and participate in the special programs and activities organized by the
University.

15.16 Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP):
The University has in place an ERP System that functions as a Centralized Platform for communication
and collaboration between Departments as well as between Students and the University.

Page 52 of 65

This System is User-friendly and operates Sub-

 Real-time Data Record
 Automated Fee Remittance
 Student Enrolment
 Learning Management
 Centralized Data Management
 Other Transactional Processes

To login use the following Link: URL: presidencyuniversity.linways.com
Mobile Application –
Play store : Play Store Link -
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linways.lms&pcampaignid
 Your Username is your Application Number and the
 password is also the Application Number
App store : App Store  Link- https://apps.apple.com/in/app/linwaysv4/id1622767410
 Your Username is your Application Number and the
 password is also the Application Number.
Example: Application Number -PU/B.TECH/XX01, PU/BBA/XX01
Once you have logged into your Linways Account, please change your password. Enter your Existing
Password (Your Application Number) and then enter your Fresh Password and  the same.   You
can access the above URL, click on Student Login to view Attendance Details,  Curriculum and also to
effect Online Fee Remittance.

16. OTHER PROVISIONS

16.1 Joint Affidavit by the Student and Parent/Legal Guardian
r- stamp paper, as per the Proforma placed in Annexure – 4 is to be
submitted jointly by the Student and Parent/Legal Guardian to the Registrar, Presidency University.
have read, understood and will adhere to all the University Regulations in the Student Handbook:
time to time.

The Joint  consists of the following mandatory undertakings as required by the MHRD/UGC
and the University:
 PART A: Student’s Information and Documents
 PART B: University Regulations and Student Handbook: Rules, Policies and Code of Conduct for
Students
 PART C: Prevention of Sexual Harassment
 PART D: Permanent Form of Permission and Indemnity


Page 53 of 65


16.2 Permanent Form of Permission and Indemnity
Explanatory Note to the Parents/Legal Guardian of the Student:
As part of the Program curriculum, your son/daughter/ward may have to travel for industrial
internship, tours and participate in similar curricular and extra-curricular programs which may
involve cultural activities, industrial tours and other expeditions/tournaments organized by the
University. The purpose and necessity of this undertaking is to obtain permission from you to enable
your son/daughter/ward to participate in such activities stated above, and also, to indemnify the
University in the event of unforeseen loss of personal property, injury and accident to limb or life, that
may befall your son/daughter/ward. This, undertaking by the Parent(s)/Legal Guardian of the Student
(PART E  Annexure – 4), is a one- time exercise and once the student
and parent/legal guardian has signed this form, the student is expected follow the instructions issued
by the University, until completion of their student program.

16.3

A.
On completion of the requirements for the award of the Degree (refer Section 21.0 of the Academic
Regulation 2021), the student may apply for a  in the prescribed
 the University from time to time, to the
Controller of Examinations of the University.

On  of the eligibility criteria prescribed in Clause 21.2 of the Academic Regulation 2021,
the Controller of Examinations shall issue the  to the concerned
student, to the effect that the concerned student has  all the requirements for the award of the
Degree in the concerned Program, and that, the Degree shall be conferred on the concerned student at
the next Convocation of the University.

B. Issue of Degree
In exceptional circumstances, a student may apply to the University with the prescribed fee and all
pursue further education or employment where the student has secured admission or is seeking


After evaluating the application's merit, the Vice Chancellor will recommend to the Chancellor whether
or not to is
 Ð 5

However, the minimum time taken to process and issue the Degree  shall be two (02) calendar
months from the date of receipt of the request for the issue of the Degree .

C. Duplicate
) will be
issued only for genuine cases, if the original is lost, stolen or damaged. In such cases, the student must
submit a written request in person with the supporting documents as under:
i. Copy of FIR (First Information Report)  with Police intimating the loss of the
digitally signed by the Commissioner of Police or any Police Authority and the full sheet of the

Page 54 of 65

Ð
ii. A non- duly signed by the Inspector or Sub
Inspector with a round seal (from the area in which the candidate lost the
mentioning crime and
non-Ð
iii. -Judicial Stamp Paper duly signed and stamped by the First-Class
Ð
iv. The student mu
 acknowledgement receipt should be attached with the application.
v.
the student
communication from the University.
vi. The minimum time taken to process and issue the Duplicate  shall be two (02) weeks
from the date of receipt of application.
D. Transfer
ä ’
 discontinuing their course and/or passing out after completing the course.  Following documents
in original must accompany the application for such request:
1. Request letter duly signed by Student and Parent
2. No Due
3. University ID card
4. Receipt of Fees paid

E.
Ð
The minimum time taken to process
and issue the  shall be One (1) day from the date of receipt of application.
F. Issue of Transcripts
The Examination Department issues Transcripts for the students who wish to apply for Higher
Education, Competitive Examination and Placement. The student must submit the proof along
with the written request/application and payment of prescribed fee acknowledgement receipt. The
minimum time taken to process such request shall be Two (02) weeks from the date of
application.
G. Procedure to Collect the Original Document Through an Authorized Person
Students can authorize a person to collect the Original Document. If an authorized person is assigned
to collect the Original  on the student’s behalf, an authorization letter duly
signed specifying the required documents to be collected, authorized person’s details and an ID Proof
of both should be submitted to the Registrar Office either in person or as a scanned document through
email at registrar@presidencyuniversity.in. The authorized person should bring the ID proof of
both authorizing and authorized (Original & copy) which is mentioned in the authorization letter.
If the authorized person is a foreign national, he/she should bring the Residential Permit or passport
(Original & copy).

Page 55 of 65

ANNEXURE – 1
ANTI-RAGGING COMMITTEE
To take appropriate action in the incidence of ragging, of any form – the University has formed the
below given Anti- Ragging Committee. There are Anti-Ragging Squads from both the teaching & non
teaching staff, who take frequent rounds around the campus, hostels & buses.

Dr. M Dhanamjaya
Pro- Vice Chancellor &
Chairman Anti Ragging
Committee
provc_admin@presidencyuniversity.in 9945185445
Dr.Sameer Khan    Dean, School of
Computer Sciences deancse@presidencyuniversity.in  9121061686
Dr. Abdul Sharief Dean, SOE deansoe@presidencyuniversity.in 9448503567
Dr.Krishna Kumar Dean, School of
Commerce & Economics deansoc@presidencyuniversity.in 9986999098
Dr Syed Shoukath
Ali Director Housing  shoukathali@presidencyuniversity.in 8050643902
Dr. Uday Ravi M Professor,
 School of Engineering udayaravim@presidencyuniversity.in 9880396669
Dr Rajiv Ranjan
Singh HoD ECE rajivranjansingh@presidencyuniversity.
 in 9742649493
Dr. R Ravikumar Professor, SOMs ravikumar.r@presidencyuniversity.in 7013300106
Dr Malar  Professor,
Languages - Kannada malarvili@presidencyuniversity.in 9480095845
Dr Bhagyashree Asst Professor,
School of Design
bhagyashree.nadig@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in
9916443127
8660990721
Mr Vinod Parent Vinraj96@gmail.com 9886200174
Mr Syed Khaja
Zunnoorain
Hydri
Parent Achiaircon77@gmail.com 9845063517
Maj Gen Gurdeep
Narang
(Veteran)
Dean Student Affairs &
Chief Proctor & Secretary,
Anti Ragging Committee
dean
studentaffairs_chiefproctor@presidenc
 yuniversity.in
9648774394

ANTI RAGGING SQUAD FOR THE YEAR 2024-25
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
1 MAJ. GEN. GURDEEP
NARANG     DSA CHIEF PROCTOR
dean
studentaffairs_chiefproctor@presi
 dencyuniversity.in
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
2 DR.UDAY RAVI MECHANICAL
ENGG.  PROF udayaravim@presidencyuniversity
 .in

Page 56 of 65

3 DR. MADHUSUDHAN
M
MECHANICAL
ENGG.
ASST. PROF. -
SENIOR  SCALE
& ASST. COE
madhusudhan@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
4 DR VINUTHA CB ECE  ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR
vinutha.cb@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
5 DR. PRADEEP KUMAR  MATHEMATICS  PROF. MATHS  pradeepkumar@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
6 DR. V. RAMA LATHA MATHEMATICS  ASSO.
PROF.MATHS
vennapusaramalatha@presidency
 university.in
7 DR. MOBEEN AHMAD MATHEMATICS  ASST.PROF.MAT
 HS
mobeen.ahmad@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
8 DR. SHILPA N  MATHEMATICS
PROF.
SELECTION
GRADE - MATHS
shilpa.n@presidencyuniversity.in
9 MR. NAGANATHAN  C   L & D  TRAINER  trainer12@presidencyuniversity.in
10 DR.DILEEP R CHEMISTRY PROFESSOR dileep.r@presidencyuniversity.in
11
MR.MOHAMMED
SHAHNAWAZ
HUSSAIN
ECE  ASST.PROF.ECE shahnawaz.hussain@presidencyun
 iversity.in
12 DR. BHANUREKHA  ECE
ASSOC. PROF.
SELECTION
GRADE- ECE
bhanurekha@presidencyuniversity
 .in
13 MR. BHAVAN KUMAR
M  CIVIL ENGG.  ASST. PROF.
CIVIL ENGG
bhavankumar.m@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
14 MR. SANTHOSH M B  CIVIL ENGG.  ASST. PROF.
CIVIL ENGG
santhoshmb@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
15 DR. MADHAVI T   CIVIL ENGG.  ASST. PROF.
SEL. GRADE   madhavit@presidencyuniversity.in
16 DR. SOURAV
MUKHERJEE PETROLEUM ASST.PROF.PET sourav.mukherjee@presidencyuni
 versity.in
17 MR. RAVI ANGADI  EEE  ASST. PROF. EEE  raviangadi@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
18 DR. RANJEET KUMAR
REDDY  PHYSICS  ASSO. PROF.
PHYS.
ranjethkumar@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in
19 DR. KIRAN KUMAR
NITTALI  SOE - ENGLISH  ASST. PROF.
ENG.
kirankumar.nittali@presidencyuni
 versity.in
SCHOOL OF CSE & IS
20 DR. M. CHANDRA
SEKHAR CSE PROF &  HOD
INCHARGE
mchandrasekhar@presidencyuniv
 ersity.in
21
MR.SANTHOSH
KUMAR K L CSE ASST PROF santhosh.kumarkl@presidencyuni
 versity.in
22 MS.AKSHATHA Y CSE
ASST PROF
SENIOR SCALE
akshathay@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
23 MS.SRIDEVI S CSE ASST PROF sridevi.s@presidencyuniversity.in
24 DR.MOHANA S.D CSE ASST PROF
mohana.sd@presidencyuniversity.i
 n

Page 57 of 65

25 DR.ABDUL KHADAR A CSE ASSOC PROF
abdulkhadar.a@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
26 DR.THRIMOORTHY N CSE ASST PROF
thrimoorthy.n@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
27 DR. MANJUNATH KV CSE
ASST PROF
SELECTION
GRADE
manjunathkv@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
28 DR. MANJULA H M CSE
ASST PROF
SELECTION
GRADE
manjulahm@presidencyuniversity.
 in
29
DR.MEDIKONDA
SWAPNA CSE
ASSOC PROF
SELECTION
GRADE
m.swapna@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
30 DR.SRINIVASAN T R CSE PROF
srinivasan.tr@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
31
MR.MD ZIA UR
RAHMAN CSE ASST PROF
mdziaurrahaman@presidencyuniv
 ersity.in
32
MS.BHUVANESHWARI
PATIL CSE ASST PROF
bhuvaneshwari.pv@presidencyuni
 versity.in
33 MR.MUTHURAJU V CSE ASST PROF
muthuraju.v@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
34 DR.JOE ARUN RAJA CSE ASSOC PROF joe.arun@presidencyuniversity.in
35 MS.RANJITHA P CSE ASST PROF ranjitha.p@presidencyuniversity.in
36 DR.HASAN HUSSAIN S CSE PROFESSOR
hasan.hussain@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in
37 MS.MONISHA GUPTA CSE ASST PROF
monisha.gupta@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
38 MR.SAPTARSI SANYAL CSE ASST PROF
saptarsi.sanyal@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
39 MR. S. SAKTHI CSE ASST PROF sakthi.s@presidencyuniversity.in
40 MR.TANVEER AHMED CSE ASST PROF
tanveer.ahmed@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
41 DR. SAMIYA MUBEEN MANAGEMENT
  ASST. PROF.SOM samiya.mubeen@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
42 DR. GADDAM
SATHEESH RAJU
MANAGEMENT
  ASST.PROF.SOM sateesh.raju@presidencyuniversity
 .in
43
DR. JAYAKRISHNA
UDUPA H
MANAGEMENT
  PROF. SOM   jayakrishna.udupa@presidencyuni
 versity.in
44 DR CHITAMBER
GUPTA
MANAGEMENT
  PROF.SOM  chithambargupta@presidencyuniv
 ersity.in
45
DR.VENKATA
RANGAIAH
MANAGEMENT

ASSOC.PROF.SO
 M
venkata.rangaiah@presidencyuniv
 ersity.in
46 DR SUNIL M
RASHINKAR
MANAGEMENT

ASSOC.PROF.SO
 M
sunilrashinkar@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
47 DR. LATHANGI MANAGEMENT

ASSOC.PROF.SO
 M lathangi.r@presidencyuniversity.in
48 DR. SURESH K MANAGEMENT

ASSOCIATE
PROF.SOM suresh.k@presidencyuniversity.in
49 DR. RAJESH P S  MANAGEMENT

ASSOC.PROF.SO
 M rajesh.ps@presidencyuniversity.in

Page 58 of 65

50 DR. AMEER HUSSAIN MANAGEMENT
  ASST PROF-SOM ameer.hussain@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
SCHOOL OF DESIGN
51 MR.KARTHIK M DESIGN  ASST. PROF. SOD  karthik.m@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
52 MR.MELWIN SAMUEL
RAJAMANI DESIGN  ASST. PROF. SOD  melwinsamuel.r@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
53 MR.ADITHYA DASARI DESIGN  ASST.PROF.SOD aditya.dasari@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
54 MS.NIVRITY SINHA DESIGN  ASST.PROF.SOD nivritysinha@presidencyuniversity
 .in
SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
55
DR KAMAL KUMAR
AGARWAL COMMERCE PROFESSOR
kamal.agarwal@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
56 DR SHANKARGOUDA COMMERCE ASSOC PROF
shankargowdaguru@presidencyun
 iversity.in
57 PROF. MARIYAPPAN COMMERCE ASST PROF
mariyappan.n@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in
58
DR. HEMANTH KUMAR
V COMMERCE  ASST PROF-SOC hemanth.kumar@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
59
DR. MOUNICA
VALLABHANENI COMMERCE.  ASST PROF-SOC mounicav@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
60
DR. ANOUJA
MOHANTY COMMERCE  ASST PROF-SOC anouja.mohanty@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
61
DR.
ANNETTE CHRISTINA
 L ARUN ANAND
COMMERCE  ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR annette.c@presidencyuniversity.in
62
DR. SYED ABID
HUSSAIN COMMERCE  ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR
syedabid.hussain@presidencyuniv
 ersity.in
63 DR. K RENJU MATHAI COMMERCE              renju.mathai@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
64 DR. P S VARSHA COMMERCE  ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR varsha.ps@presidencyuniversity.in
65
DR. SYED AHMED
WAJIH COMMERCE  ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR
syed.wajih@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
SCHOOL OF LAW
66
DR.MOHAMMED.
SALEEM SOL
ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR
mohd.saleem@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
67 SOFIUL AHMED SOL
ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR
sofiul.ahmed@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
68 PUSHPITA DUTTA SOL
ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR
pushpita.dutta@presidencyunivers
 ity.in
69 RAVIKRISHNAN EM SOL
ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR
ravikrishnan.em@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
70 BHAVANA CHANDRA SOL
ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR
bhavana.chandran@presidencyuni
 versity.in
SCHOOL OF MEDIA STUDIES
71 MS.PADAMAVATI S SOMs ASST. PROF.
SOMS
padmavathi.s@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in

Page 59 of 65

72 DR.RAVI KUMAR R SOMs ASSOC
PROF.SOMS
ravikumar.r@presidencyuniversity
 .in
SPORTS
73 DR.ALAUTHEN BASHA SPORTS DIRECTOR alauthen.basha@presidencyuniver
 sity.in
74
MS.SANDHYA SPORTS LEAD COACH sandhya.kk@presidencyuniversity.
 in
75 MR. SRIKANTH SPORTS COACH srikanthv@presidencyuniversity.in

HOSTEL
BOYS HOSTEL IN CHARGES
76 SYED SHOUKATHALI
Chief of Anti
Raging squad
for All  Hostels
DIRECTOR
STUDENT
HOUSING
shoukathali@presidencyuniversity
 .in
77 JADDI RAO
Comitee
Member Boys
Hostel
WARDEN jramarao@presidencyuniversity.in
78 SATHISH
Comitee
Member Boys
Hostel
WARDEN Sathishp@presidencyuniversity.in
79 WASEEM PASHA Co-ordinators ADMIN
ASSOCIATE
wasimpasha@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
80 PRASANJITH SHETTY Co-ordinators FACILITY
MANAGER
prasanjith@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
GIRLS HOSTEL IN CHARGES
81 ZAREENA ALI Overall
Incharge
RESIDENCE
OFFICER  zareena.ali@presidency.edu.in
82 SUNITA NAIR Comitee
member  WARDEN sunithanair@presidencyuniversity.
 in
83 CHITRA Comitee
member  WARDEN chitrachitra54968@gmail.com
84 MARYANN GRACE
GRANT
Comitee
member  WARDEN maryann.gracegrant@presidencyu
 niversity.in
MAIN GATE
85 ANUP SINGH PLUS 10
GUARDS Security Officer  ADMINISTRATIO
 N
anupsingh@presidencyuniversity.i
 n




Page 60 of 65


ANNEXURE – 2

CONSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY COMMITTEE FOR PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT,
ITS RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES.

SN Member Designation Membership Mobile No Email id
1 Dr. Anu Sukhdev
Professor
&Assistant Dean –Student Affairs
Chairperson  9731451035 anu.sukhdev@presidencyuniversit
 y.in
2  Dr. Mohamadi
Begum  Professor Vice
Chairperson 9487952053 mohamadi.begum@presidencyuni
 versity.in
3 Dr.
Mahalakshmi  Professor Member  9842066415 mahalakshmi@presidencyuniversi
 ty.in
4 Dr. Alamelu
Mangai   Professor Member  9108743597 alamelu.jothidurai@presidencyuni
 versity.in
5
Dr.
Mounica  Vallabh
 eni
Associate
Professor Member  9087682014 mounicav@presidencyuniversity.i
 n
6 Dr. Shakkeera L Professor Member  9444710836 shakkeera.l@presidencyuniversity
 .in
7 Dr. Saira Banu   Professor Member  9884127780 sairabanuatham@presidencyunive
 rsity.in
8  Assistant
Professor Member 78965 63767  ä
 y.in
9 Ms.Bhavana
Chandran
Assistant
Professor
Member
Secretary  9900112231 bhavana.chandran@presidencyuni
 versity.in
10 Dr. Sapna Mohan
Associate Dean
and Head, School
of Law,  Christ
University
External
Member  9916491576 sapnamurali@gmail.com

Procedures:
1. The victim may make a formal complaint in writing in the form of a letter / email /audio
recording, preferably at the earliest possible time of occurrence of the alleged incident.
2. The investigation shall proceed at the earliest possible time upon receipt of the enquiry report
and the University authorities shall promptly act on the enquiry report.
3.
Ð


By e mail: Any complaint of sexual harassment must be send by an email to the ICC – on
puicc@presidencyuniversity.in  or it can be submitted to: Dr. Anu
Sukhdev, Professor & Assistant Dean- Student Affairs - Chairperson
ANNEXURE – 3
STUDENT GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL COMMITTEE
Sl.
No
Name
Designation
Membership
1 Dr. Dhanamjaya Madhiraju
Pro Vice Chancellor
Administration
2 Maj Gen Gurdeep Singh Narang
Chairperson
Dean –Student Affairs  and Chief
Proctor
2 Dr. Abdul Sharief
Dean, SoE
Member
3 Dr. Aisha Banu
Member
Assistant Professor and Head,
SOC
3 Dr. Deepthi P. R
Professor, SOE
Member
4 Dr. T.Ranjeth Kumar Reddy
Member
Head – Student Mentor
Member
5
Student- SOE
Mr. Syed Khaja Daanish Hydri
Roll No. 20211MEC0026
Member
6 Ms. Niharika S Hubli
Roll No. 202031BDS0052
Student –SOD
Member
6 Mr. M.V.Dev Anand
Roll No. 20232MBA0159
Student  -SOM
Member
7 Ms. Jagruthi
Roll No. 20211CIT0155
Student -SOCSE
Member
8 Ms. Prakruthi raj
Roll No. 20221BCH0072
Student –SOC
Member
9 Dr. Anu Sukhdev
Assistant Dean, Student Affairs
Member Secretary
PROCEDURE FOR REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE
i.
ii.
The University shall furnish, prominently, on its website and in its prospectus, all relevant
information in respect of the Student Grievance Redressal Committee(s) coming in its purview,
and the Ombudsperson for the purpose of appeals.
ubmit his/her complaint in
writing to his/her mentor who shall resolve the grievance within two days. In case the mentor
is unable to resolve the grievance, he shall forward it to the Chairperson of the
School/Departmental Level Grievance Committee.
iii. The chairperson of the School/Departmental Committee shall convene a Committee meeting
within 2 days of receiving the complaint from the faculty mentor or from the aggrieved
student in case he/she applies directly to the committee.
iv. The chairperson shall attempt to resolve the grievance within a week of the receipt of the
complaint and the action taken shall be reported to the mentor.
v. If the grievant is not resolved/
with the solution of the school/department level
committee, he/she shall appeal to the University Level Student Grievance Redressal
Committee giving the reasons for his/her dissatisfaction with the decision, within a week of
receipt of the decision of the school/department level committee.
vi. The Chairperson of the University Level Grievance Redressal Committee shall convene a
meeting of the committee within 2 days of receiving the complaint. The Committee shall verify
Page 61 of 65

Page 62 of 65

the facts and shall either endorse the decision of the school level committee or shall issue an
appropriate an order within a week of receipt of the grievance.
vii.  Level
Student Grievance Redressal Committee, he/she can submit an appeal to the to the
Ombudsperson, within a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of such decision.
viii. In case of non-academic /administration grievances, an aggrieved student can send the grievance
through mail to studentgrievance@presidencyuniveristy.in and can raise the grievance in the
open forum during monthly student welfare committee meetings. The University grievance
committee will forward the grievance to the concerned stake holders and help the student in
resolving the grievance within one week’s time.
ix. At all levels a fair hearing shall be given to all parties.
x. The law of natural justice shall be observed and a fair hearing to the grievant shall be given
at all levels. The relevant provisions of the Act/Regulations shall be kept in mind while
passing an order on the grievance at any level, and no order shall be passed in contradiction
of the same.

APPEALLATE AUTHORITY/OMBUDSMAN

Functions of Ombudsperson
1. The Ombudsperson shall hear appeals from an aggrieved student, only after the student has
availed all other remedies provided under these Guidelines.
2. While issues of malpractices in the conduct of examination or in the process of evaluation may be
referred to the Ombudsperson, no appeal or application for revaluation or re-totalling of answer
 of discrimination is indicated.
3. The Ombudsperson may avail assistance of any person, as amicus curiae, for hearing complaints
of alleged discrimination.
4. The Ombudsperson shall make all efforts to resolve the grievances within a period of 30 days of
receiving the appeal from the aggrieved student(s).

PROCEDURE FOR REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCES BY OMBUDSPERSON
1. Grievances not resolved by the Students’ Grievance Redressal Committee within the time period
provided in these guidelines may be referred to the Ombudsperson by the university.
2. Institutions shall extend co-operation to the Ombudsperson or the Student Grievance Redressal
Committee(s), in early redressal of grievances.
3. The Ombudsperson shall, after giving reasonable opportunities of being heard to the parties
concerned, on the conclusion of proceedings, pass such order, with reasons thereof, as may be
student
4. The institution, as well as the aggrieved student, shall be provided with copies of the order under the
signature of the Ombudsperson.
5. The institution shall comply with the recommendations of the Ombudsperson.
6. The Ombudsperson may recommend appropriate action against the complainant, where a complaint
is found to be false or frivolous.
